---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2300.html
title: Japanese Confucianism
description: A tourist's introduction to Confucianism in Japan.
keywords: confucianism, confucius, japan
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 439
char_count: 3194
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:39:24
---

Confucius (孔子, Kōshi) was a Chinese philosopher who lived in China from 551 to 479 BC. His teachings, known as Confucianism (儒教, Jukyō), have had a deep impact not only on China but also many neighboring countries, including Japan.

Confucianism is one of the three traditional Chinese [religions](e629.html), besides Taoism and [Buddhism](e2055.html). According to early Japanese writings, it was introduced to Japan via the Korean peninsula in the year 285 AD. Some of the most important Confucian principles are humanity, loyalty, morality and consideration on an individual and political level.

During the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868), Neo-Confucianism (especially Chu Hsi Confucianism) was the most important philosophy in the [Tokugawa](e2128.html) government and education. It had a prevalent impact on Japanese society at the time, and its influences can still be felt today.

The following are some sites related to Confucius and his teachings around Japan:

* 

  [Tokyo](e2164.html)

  [Yushima Seido](e3074.html#seido)

  Yushima Seido is one of only a handful of shrines in Japan that are dedicated to Confucius. Located in [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s [Kanda](e3074.html) district, the complex used to be a leading center of Confucian studies during the [Edo Period](e2128.html). The shrine buildings are covered in black lacquer, making for a unique, striking appearance. The grounds are open everyday and feature a bronze statue of Confucius. The interior of the main hall, however, is only open on weekends and [holidays](e2062.html).
* 

  [Nagasaki](e2162.html)

  [Nagasaki Confucius Shrine](e4403.html)

  The [Nagasaki Confucius Shrine](e4403.html) in [Nagasaki](e2162.html) is another shrine dedicated to Confucius in Japan. The path from the main gate to the shrine is flanked by 72 stone statues of Confucius' disciples, and behind them are two long marble slabs carved with text from his teachings. The Historical Museum of China can also be found here.
* 

  [Tochigi Prefecture](/list/e1210.html)

  Ashikaga Gakko

  Hours: 9:00 to 16:30 (until 16:00 from October to March)  
  Closed: generally on the 3rd Wednesday of each month (or next day if Wednesday is a [public holiday](e2062.html)), December 29-31  
  Admission: 480 yen

  Ashikaga Gakko ("Ashikaga School"), near Ashikaga Station in [Tochigi Prefecture](/list/e1210.html), was established in 832 and is the oldest school in Japan. The teachings of Confucius formed the core syllabus taught here which attracted students from all over the country. The site has preserved buildings showing classic architecture and gardens.