---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2274.html
title: Luggage in Japan
description: What to bring on your trip to Japan. About luggage related issues when traveling in Japan.
keywords: japan, baggage, luggage, packing, coin, lockers, locker
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 1297
char_count: 8756
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:55:34
---

It is strongly recommended to pack light when traveling around Japan. Most [trains](e2019.html) do not provide space for bulky luggage, and even though the [accessibility](e2301.html) situation at stations has improved considerably over recent years, some platforms are not equipped with escalators or elevators or you might have to make a detour to get to one. Traveling light also avoids reliance on large sized coin lockers, which are less readily available than smaller sized coin lockers at many stations.

### Luggage on transportation

#### On trains

There is not much room for large suitcases on urban and long-distance [trains](e2019.html) especially during [rush hours](e2020.html). Some exceptions are [airport](e2034.html) trains such as the [Narita Express](e2027.html) and [Haruka](e2033.html), and an increasing number of [shinkansen](e2018.html) in eastern Japan, which have designated storage space for large luggage. Therefore it is recommended not to bring large suitcases, [strollers](e2460.html), music instruments and sport equipment onto trains.

According to [JR](e2019.html) regulations, each passenger may bring up to two pieces of luggage onto trains, not including smaller bags. Each piece of luggage may not weigh more than 30kg, and its three dimensions (length, width and depth) may not add up to more than 250cm, while its length may not exceed 200cm.

The airport trains are some of the few trains with dedicated storage space

Most trains have **overhead shelves** for luggage to be placed on. On [shinkansen](e2018.html) trains, the shelves are typically about 40cm high and 60cm deep and able to accommodate relatively large items, but on other trains they are often smaller. Furthermore, on many shinkansen trains the leg room is surprisingly spacious and may be large enough for your legs and a mid-sized suitcase, although this may not be the most comfortable solution.

Additionally, there is space for two or three large suitcases behind the last row of seats in each car; however, on shinkansen trains in western Japan only passengers sitting in the last row of seats are supposed to place their luggage into the space behind their seats.

Luggage space behind the last row of seats

A special rule for **oversized luggage** applies along the [Tokaido](e2018_tokaido.html)/[Sanyo](e2018_sanyo.html)/[Kyushu Shinkansen](e2018_kyushu.html) and the [Nishikyushu Shinkansen](e2018_nishikyushu.html), which connect [Tokyo](e2164.html) with [Kyoto](e2158.html), [Osaka](e2157.html) and [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html) (see map below). Passengers with oversized luggage, i.e. luggage pieces whose height, width and depth add up to more than 160cm (63 inches), are required to make a seat reservation for specific seats in the last row of cars and place their luggage pieces behind their seats. Oversized luggage is not allowed in non-reserved cars.

Passengers without a reservation for their oversized luggage will be asked to move their luggage to a space specified by the train conductor and pay a 1000 yen surcharge which is not covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html). It is possible to make reservations in advance at ticket offices, ticket machines or [online](e2018.html#online). This oversized luggage rule is not in place on other train lines.

#### On buses

Most airport and [highway buses](e2366.html) have separate compartments for large pieces of luggage, but may enforce a maximum of one or two pieces per person. In addition, smaller bags can be carried onto the bus.

On [city buses](e2015.html), there is no designated space for luggage, and many companies ask their passengers to limit luggage to small or medium bags of up to 10 kilograms. Travelers with larger luggage should consider getting a [taxi](e2021.html) or using a [delivery service](#delivery).

#### On airplanes

The luggage policy on [domestic flights](e2364.html) differs by the airlines. Conventional airlines allow their passengers to bring a reasonable amount of check-in and carry-on luggage for free, but low-cost carriers tend to have very strict luggage rules and charge fees for check-in luggage.

#### Taxis

Most [taxis](e2021.html) are able to carry multiple, large suitcases in their trunks and can be a convenient way to avoid uncomfortable walks, train or bus rides to one's hotel.

#### Rental cars

Outside of the large cities, [rental cars](e2024.html) are a convenient way to free oneself from the hassle of carrying around bags and searching for storage options.

Interior of a shinkansen car

### Luggage storage

**Luggage storage counters** can be found at [airports](e2034.html) and usually charge between 500 and 1000 yen per piece and day, depending on the size of the item. Some larger [train](e2019.html) stations have manned storage counters too and typically charge about the same for luggage handling. Unlike at airports where luggage can be stored over multiple days, the storage counters at stations often require same-day pick-up.

**Coin lockers** come in various sizes and can be found at virtually every train station and at the entrances to some [tourist attractions](e623a.html), but are not always available in large formats. Below are the three most common coin locker types (typical sizes are given as height x width x depth):

* **Small**
    
  approx. 35cm x 34cm x 57cm (13in x 13in x 22in)
    
  by far the most common size, found in large numbers at virtually all stations
* **Medium**
    
  approx. 57cm x 34cm x 57cm (22in x 13in x 22in)
    
  available in moderate numbers at major stations
* **Large**
    
  approx. 117cm x 34cm x 57cm (44in x 13in x 22in)
    
  available in small numbers at major stations

The cost of coin lockers is based on calendar days (midnight to midnight) and is typically 300-400 [yen](e2196.html) for small lockers, 400-500 [yen](e2196.html) for medium lockers and 500-800 [yen](e2196.html) for large lockers per calendar day. In other words, if you use a small locker overnight, you will have to pay an additional 300-400 yen when picking up your luggage the following day. Lockers are emptied by station staff after three days.

To use a coin locker, 1) find an empty one, 2) put in your luggage, 3) insert the coins (100 yen coins only), 4) close the door and turn the key and 5) take the key with you. Keep some [100 yen coins](e2196.html) with you if you are a frequent user of coin lockers, although in recent years, the number of lockers that can be paid with [IC cards](e2359_003.html), such as Suica, has increased gradually.

More and more coin lockers can be used with IC cards

### Luggage delivery

[Door-to-door delivery services](e2278.html) (takuhaibin) can be a comfortable alternative to carrying around luggage. They can be used nationwide to/from [airports](e2034.html), [convenience stores](e2071.html), [hotels](e2025.html), service centers and private homes. Delivery is usually on the next day, except over large distances and in remote areas where it can take up to three days. It is possible to specify the date and time frame for deliveries. Read more about [takuhaibin services](e2278.html).

Baggage delivery services are also offered at some popular tourist spots, such as:

* **Kyoto**
    
  For around 1500 yen per piece, same-day delivery of luggage is possible between the luggage counter of Kyoto Station and hotels across [Kyoto](e2158.html), as well as between hotels.
* **Hakone**
    
  For between 1000 and 2500 yen per piece, same-day delivery of luggage is possible between Hakone-Yumoto Station and hotels around [Hakone](e5200.html).
* **Tateyama Kurobe Alpine Route**
    
  For between 4000 yen per piece, same-day delivery of luggage is possible along the [Tateyama Kurobe Alpine Route](e7550.html) between Toyama Station and Shinano-Omachi Station.
* **Kiso Valley**
    
  For 1000 yen per piece, same-day delivery of luggage is possible between [Tsumago](e6077.html) and [Magome](e6076.html) for those who intend to walk along the [Old Nakasendo](e6078.html) between the two towns. The service is not available during winter.
* **Luggage service centers**
    
  Leading luggage delivery companies, such as Yamato and Sagawa, have luggage counters at some major railway stations, allowing for deliveries to hotels and airports, often same-day. The cost depends on the size and weight and is around 2000-2500 yen for a suitcase (plus a few hundred yen in case of airport deliveries).

Delivery service counters at Kansai Airport