---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2422.html
title: Historic towns and districts in Japan
description: A list of historic towns and city districts in Japan.
keywords: japan, historic, old, traditional, town, towns, village, villages, city, cities, district, districts, samurai, quarter
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 1478
char_count: 10926
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:42:44
---

While many of Japan's historic buildings and districts have been lost due to fires, earthquakes, wars and city redevelopment, some [cities and towns](/list/e1003.html) have managed to preserve a street block or whole district of traditional buildings for residents and tourists to enjoy today. The list below introduces some of Japan's best preserved historic city districts and towns:

### Former samurai districts

Many Japanese cities, including [Tokyo](e2164.html), [Osaka](e2157.html) and [Nagoya](e2155.html), have developed as [castle towns](e2296.html), where the local feudal lord resided in the centrally located castle, and his retainers, the [samurai](e2127.html), lived in the districts surrounding the [castle](e2296.html).

As the highest social caste during the [Edo Period](e2128.html), the [samurai](e2127.html) were allowed to construct elaborate residences with earthen walls and elegant homes. Among the best preserved former samurai districts are the ones of [Kakunodate](e3601.html), [Hagi](e6150.html) and [Kanazawa](e2167.html).

* 

  [Hagi](e6150.html)

  [Former Castle Town•](e6151.html)

  A few lanes, lined by the white walls and wooden gates of former [samurai](e2127.html) mansions are beautifully preserved in the Jokamachi district of Hagi today. Some houses are open to the public.
* 

  [Kakunodate](e3601.html)

  [Samurai District•](e3602.html)

  A beautifully preserved samurai district with several former [samurai](e2127.html) mansions open to the public. Kakunodate's samurai district is famous for its many weeping [cherry trees](e2011.html).
* 

  [Kanazawa](e2167.html)

  [Nagamachi•](e4204.html)

  Narrow lanes and old mansions are preserved in Nagamachi, one of Kanazawa's former [samurai](e2127.html) districts. Kanazawa used to be the capital of the [Edo Period](e2128.html)'s second wealthiest feudal domain.
* 

  [Kunisaki Peninsula](e4720.html)

  [Kitsuki•](e4725.html)

  Kitsuki is unique for having two samurai districts on hills sandwiching a merchant district in the valley in between. They are among the most pleasantly preserved samurai districts in Japan.
* 

  [Tsuwano](e5875.html)

  [Old Town](e5877.html)

  The highlight of [Tsuwano](e5875.html)'s old town is the Tonomachi district where one street block of the former samurai district is particularly nicely preserved with earthen walls, historic buildings and a water canal filled with carps.
* 

  [Usuki](e4740.html)

  [Samurai District](e4743.html)

  The preserved area of Usuki's samurai district is small but photogenic. Referred to as Nioza Historical Road, it is about 200 meters long.
* 

  [Matsue](e5800.html)

  [Samurai District](e5802.html)

  Some of Matsue's former samurai mansions have been preserved along the busy road north of [Matsue Castle](e5801.html). Among them is the former residence of Lafcadio Hearn.

### Former merchant districts

In theory the lowest of the four social castes during the [Edo Period](e2128.html), many merchants grew very wealthy towards the end of the feudal ages. Like other social castes, the merchants lived in assigned city districts. Merchant districts are characterized by shop-lined streets and warehouses (kura). Among the cities with the most beautifully preserved former merchant districts are [Takayama](e5900.html) and [Kurashiki](e5750.html).

* 

  [Takayama](e5900.html)

  [Old Town••](e5903.html)

  The narrow streets in Takayama's old town are lined by traditional buildings, shops and [sake](e2037_sake.html) breweries. A few former merchant homes are open to the public.
* 

  [Kurashiki](e5750.html)

  [Canal Area•](e5751.html)

  Numerous warehouses are preserved along a willow lined canal. Many of the warehouses have been converted into museums, souvenir stores, boutiques and cafes.
* 

  [Uchiko](e5550.html)

  [Yokaichi Old Town•](e5552.html)

  A 600 meter long street lined by preserved buildings from the era when the small town of Uchiko on Shikoku gained international fame and wealth as wax producer.
* 

  [Shiga Prefecture](/list/e1224.html)

  [Omi Hachiman•](e7075.html)

  In the old days, the merchants from Omi Province in today's [Shiga Prefecture](/list/e1224.html) were known nationwide for their business skills. Their home town, [Omi Hachiman](e7075.html), preserves a pretty old district around a picturesque canal.
* 

  [Bitchu-Takahashi](e5775.html)

  [Fukiya Village•](e5781.html)

  A nicely preserved village known for bengara color pigment that was gained from nearby copper mines. Part of its appeal is the village's remote location in the mountains one hour outside central [Takahashi](e5775.html).
* 

  [Asuka and Sakurai](e4175.html)

  [Imaicho Town](e4185.html)

  Rather than just a district, Imaicho is a whole town whose machiya town house-lined streets have been preserved. A couple of merchant houses are open for tourists to enter.
* 

  [Nara](e2165.html)

  [Naramachi](e4108.html)

  Naramachi is the former merchant district of Nara, where several traditional warehouses and residential buildings have survived. One old residence is open to the public for free.
* 

  [Kawagoe](e6500.html)

  [Warehouse District](e6501.html)

  More than a dozen massive warehouses, reminiscent of the [Edo Period](e2128.html), are preserved along Kawagoe's main street. Many of them are now housing stores and restaurants.
* 

  [Narita](e6400.html)

  [Sawara Town](e6406.html)

  A former transport hub for rice shipments into the capital, Sawara's historic center lies along a canal lined by a few preserved and restored traditional residences, merchant shops and warehouses.
* 

  [Matsumoto](e6050.html)

  [Nakamachi](e6052.html)

  Nakamachi-dori is a street lined by several nicely preserved, old buildings, including a number of warehouses. Some of them house small shops, restaurants and ryokan.

### Geisha districts

Traditional [geisha](e2102.html) districts are characterized by the wooden tea houses, in which the geisha perform during banquets. The most beautiful, traditional geisha quarters are found in [Kyoto](e2158.html) and [Kanazawa](e2167.html):

* 

  [Kyoto](e2158.html)

  [Gion•](e3902.html)

  Gion's Hanami-koji Street and Shirakawa area are lined by beautiful old buildings, tea houses and restaurants. In the evenings, you may be able to spot a [geisha](e2102.html) apprentice.
* 

  [Kanazawa](e2167.html)

  [Higashi Chaya District•](e4206.html)

  Kanazawa has multiple geisha districts with several old tea houses, where [geisha](e2102.html) are still performing at banquets today. Two tea houses are open to the public.

### Post towns

Post towns were built along the country's highways, such as the Tokaido and Nakasendo, to accommodate and cater to travelers. Only a small number of former post towns have preserved their [Edo Period](e2128.html) appearance. The best among them is [Tsumago](e6077.html) in the [Kiso Valley](e6075.html).

* 

  [Kiso Valley](e6075.html)

  [Tsumago••](e6077.html)

  A beautifully preserved post town along the old Nakasendo with most of the town's buildings dating back to the [Edo Period](e2128.html), when they served as lodgings and restaurants.
* 

  [Kiso Valley](e6075.html)

  [Magome•](e6076.html)

  Another nicely preserved post town, about 10 kilometers south of [Tsumago](e6077.html) along the old Nakasendo. The two towns are connected by a nice [hiking trail](e6078.html).
* 

  [Aizu](e7700.html)

  [Ouchijuku•](e7710.html)

  Ouchijuku is a post town along the Aizu-Nishi Kaido trade route, which connected [Aizu](e7700.html) with [Nikko](e3800.html) during the [Edo Period](e2128.html). It is located about 20 kilometers south of Aizu-Wakamatsu.
* 

  [Kiso Valley](e6075.html)

  [Narai•](e6080.html)

  The wealthiest former post town in the [Kiso Valley](e6075.html), Narai stretches over a whole kilometer. Unfortunately, vehicular traffic is not banned along the street.

### Pilgrimage towns

For centuries, Japan's most important [temples](e2058.html) and [shrines](e2059.html) have attracted crowds of pilgrims and tourists, resulting in street blocks, city districts and whole towns, providing visitors with lodgings, food and souvenirs.

* 

  [Kyoto](e2158.html)

  [Higashiyama•••](e3959.html)

  The narrow streets ascending the slopes to [Kiyomizudera](e3901.html), one of [Kyoto](e2158.html)'s most popular [temples](e2058.html), are lined by many old buildings, shops and restaurants.
* 

  [Ise Shima](e4310.html)

  [Oharaimachi•](e4302.html)

  Oharaimachi is the old street leading to the [Inner Shrine of Ise](e4300.html). It is lined by many [Edo Period](e2128.html) style buildings, some of which are originals while others are reconstructions.

### Farming towns

The vast majority of Japan's population in the [Edo Period](e2128.html) and before was made up of farmers who typically lived in simple, thatched roof buildings. While single old farm houses are preserved at [open air museums](e2421.html), there are a few remote villages that have preserved an appearance of past centuries.

* 

  [Shirakawa-go](e5950.html)

  [Ogimachi Village••](e5951.html)

  The largest village in the mountainous [Shirakawa-go](e5950.html) region of [Gifu Prefecture](/list/e1220.html), [Ogimachi](e5951.html) preserves many massive gassho-zukuri farm houses in its village center and an adjacent open-air museum. The best way to experience the village is to [overnight at one of the farm houses](e5952.html).
* 

  [Gokayama](e5950.html)

  [Ainokura Village•](e5955.html)

  [Ainokura](e5955.html) is a remote small village in [Gokayama](e5950.html) with several gassho-zukuri farm houses. Some of the houses serve as [minshuku](e2026.html) where tourists can experience an [overnight stay](e5952.html).
* 

  [Gokayama](e5950.html)

  [Suganuma Village•](e5954.html)

  [Suganuma Village](e5954.html) is a small collection of gassho-zukuri farm houses in the remote [Gokayama](e5950.html) region of [Toyama Prefecture](/list/e1219.html).
* 

  [Kyoto Prefecture](/list/e1226.html)

  [Miyama](e3985.html)

  [Miyama](e3985.html) is a rural town in the mountains north of [Kyoto](e2158.html). It features over two hundred thatched roof houses scattered across its idyllic countryside. Miyama's Kayabuki no Sato village records the highest percentage of thatched roof buildings of any town in Japan.

### Port towns

Port towns have been accommodating the fishing and trading industries for centuries. Over time, some grew into large cities with major international ports, such as [Nagasaki](e2162.html), [Yokohama](e2156.html) or [Kobe](e2159.html), while others remained remote, small fishing villages. A few of them have preserved an atmosphere of bygone times.

* 

  [Fukuyama](e3430.html)

  [Tomonoura•](e3432.html)

  Tomonoura is a picturesque port town situated at a bay in Hiroshima Prefecture facing the [Seto Inland Sea](e5445.html). It features an endearing fishing townscape and an old town center of many photogenic alleys lined by rustic old houses. In the past, merchant ships traveling along the Seto Inland Sea would dock at Tomonoura while waiting for a favorable tide.
* 

  [Near Amanohashidate](e3990.html)

  [Ine•](e3996.html)

  [Ine](e3996.html) is a unique fishing town of "boat houses" (funaya) located around a pretty bay. The houses traditionally incorporate garages for boats on their first floors and residential space on the upper floors.
* 

  [Marugame](e5465.html)

  [Honjima Island•](e5468.html)

  Kasashima Town on [Honjima Island](e5468.html) in the [Seto Inland Sea](e5445.html) preserves several buildings from the [Edo Period](e2128.html). Honjima's former inhabitants controlled trade traffic across the Seto Inland Sea from the strategically well situated island.
* 

  [Kumamoto Prefecture](/list/e1244.html)

  [Misumi West Port](e4589.html)

  [Misumi West Port](e4589.html) was a major shipping point for coal from the [Miike Coal Mines](e4895.html) for only about a decade during the [Meiji Period](e2130.html) before losing to the nearby Misumi East Port. Several historic buildings have survived until today and provide a pleasant atmosphere to visiting tourists.
* 

  [Iwami Ginzan](e5850.html)

  [Yunotsu Onsen](e5854.html)

  [Yunotsu](e5854.html) is now a pleasantly old-fashioned [hot spring](e2292.html) town along the calm Sea of Japan coast. A few centuries ago the town's port saw large amounts of silver from the nearby [Iwami Ginzan](e5850.html) silver mines shipped out.

### Ryukyu villages

An independent kingdom for several centuries, the Ryukyu Islands became part of Japan as [Okinawa Prefecture](/list/e1247.html) in 1879. Despite past assimilation efforts, the distinct Ryukyuan culture is proudly surviving today and has become one of Okinawa's main tourist attractions.

* 

  [Yaeyama Islands](e7200.html)

  [Taketomi Island•••](e7250.html)

  The small village consists almost entirely of traditional style, one-storied houses with red tiled roofs, stone walls, ample of lion like shiza statues and white sand roads.


[## The Basics about Overtourism in Japan

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2422.html+report+topstory+255+338+0+/news/overtourism.html)

[## Tokyo to Osaka, But Not the Usual Way

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2422.html+report+jrkintetsu+1+11+0+/ad/jr-kintetsu-pearl-route/)

[## Ultimate Guide to Limited Express Trains

Travel Guide

](/link.html?/e/e2422.html+report+topstory+299+390+0+/e/e2016_limited_express.html)

[## Four spots not to miss on the Boso Peninsula

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2422.html+report+chiba+5+15+0+/ad/boso-activities/)

[## 2025 Autumn Color Reports

Travel Report

](/link.html?/e/e2422.html+report+topstory+298+389+0+/blog/koyo25/)

[## 14 years after the tsunami

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2422.html+report+topstory+297+388+0+/blog/recovery/251028.html)

[## A visit to Legoland Resort Nagoya

Traveling with Kids

](/link.html?/e/e2422.html+report+topstory+291+381+0+/blog/traveling-with-kids/250701.html)

[## The Basics about Overtourism in Japan

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2422.html+report+topstory+255+338+0+/news/overtourism.html)

[## Tokyo to Osaka, But Not the Usual Way

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2422.html+report+jrkintetsu+1+11+0+/ad/jr-kintetsu-pearl-route/)

[## Ultimate Guide to Limited Express Trains

Travel Guide

](/link.html?/e/e2422.html+report+topstory+299+390+0+/e/e2016_limited_express.html)

[## Four spots not to miss on the Boso Peninsula

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2422.html+report+chiba+5+15+0+/ad/boso-activities/)

[## 2025 Autumn Color Reports

Travel Report

](/link.html?/e/e2422.html+report+topstory+298+389+0+/blog/koyo25/)

[## 14 years after the tsunami

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2422.html+report+topstory+297+388+0+/blog/recovery/251028.html)

[## A visit to Legoland Resort Nagoya

Traveling with Kids

](/link.html?/e/e2422.html+report+topstory+291+381+0+/blog/traveling-with-kids/250701.html)