---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2431.html
title: Nagoya Central Japan Airport Centrair (Chubu Airport, NGO)
description: Visitor guide to Nagoya's Central Japan International Airport, also known as Centrair and Chubu Airport.
keywords: airport, nagoya, central, japan, international, chubu, airport, centrair, NGO
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 727
char_count: 5472
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:56:44
---

Central Japan International Airport Centrair (中部空港, Chūbu Kūkō, airport code: NGO), just outside [Nagoya](e2155.html), is Japan's fourth most important international [airport](e2034.html) after Tokyo's [Narita Airport](e2027.html) and [Haneda Airport](e2430.html) and Osaka's [Kansai Airport](e2033.html).

Constructed on a man-made island in the Bay of Ise, Central Japan Airport was opened in February 2005 in time for the [Expo 2005 Aichi](/expo/), taking over all international and most domestic air traffic formerly handled by Nagoya's Komaki Airport. It is one of Japan's most convenient and pleasant airports, offering a wide range of shopping and dining opportunities that even include a [public bath](e2074.html) and a Boeing museum.

Inside the main terminal

The airport consists of a two terminal buildings. **Terminal 1** is the main terminal for domestic and international flights by most airlines, while **terminal 2** is a smaller terminal for use by discount airlines. It takes 5-10 minutes to walk between the two terminals.

Just next to terminal 2 stands the **Flight of Dreams** shopping and dining complex which exhibits the first-ever manufactured Boeing 787 airplane and is themed after Seattle where the headquarters of Boeing were originally located. Besides Seattle-themed shops and restaurants, the complex contains a children-friendly museum about (Boeing) airplanes. Japanese companies contributed greatly towards the development of the Boeing 787 aircraft.

Flight of Dreams

Central Japan Airport is located about 40 kilometers south of [Nagoya](e2155.html). It is conveniently connected with Nagoya and various places across central Japan by public transportation. For access to Nagoya Station, the train is the fastest and cheapest option.

Most transportation options arrive at and depart from the **Access Plaza** which is located adjacent to Terminal 1 or a 5-10 minute walk from Terminal 2.

### By train

The one way journey between [Nagoya](e2155.html) Station and Central Japan Airport by Meitetsu Railway takes 30 minutes and costs 980 yen by non-reserved seat and 1430 yen by reserved seat. The airport trains also provide direct connections to [Inuyama](e3350.html) and Gifu City. To reach Toyohashi, a transfer of trains is required at Jingu-mae Station.

Several [types of trains](e2016.html#category) run between the airport and central Nagoya: Myu Sky limited express trains carry only reserved seats while limited express trains carry both reserved and non-reserved seats. All other types of trains, such as express and local trains, carry only non-reserved seats and are distinctly slower than the limited express trains (about 45 minutes). There are multiple departures every hour.

The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) is not valid on Meitetsu trains.

### By bus

[Buses](e2015.html) operate between the airport and several locations around Nagoya, [Aichi Prefecture](/list/e1221.html) and the surrounding prefectures. In particular, there is a bus connecting the airport with [Sakae](e3304.html) in central Nagoya every two hours (40-60 minutes, 1500 yen one way).

### By taxi

A [taxi](e2021.html) ride into central Nagoya costs about 15,000 yen.

### By boat to Tsu

High-speed [boats](e2355.html) connect the airport with the city of Tsu in [Mie Prefecture](/list/e1225.html) across the Bay of Ise roughly every 1-2 hours. The one way ride takes 45 minutes and costs 2980 yen.

Access Plaza