---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2321.html
title: Yasukuni Shrine
description: Visitor guide for Yasukuni Shrine in Tokyo.
keywords: yasukuni, shrine, yushukan, museum
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 2878
char_count: 20411
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:56:58
---

Offering Hall (Haiden)

Yasukuni Shrine (靖国神社, Yasukuni Jinja) is a [Shinto shrine](e2059.html) in central [Tokyo](e2164.html), which commemorates Japan's war dead. The shrine was founded in 1869 with the purpose of enshrining those who have died in war for their country and sacrificed their lives to help build the foundation for a peaceful Japan.

The spirits of about 2.5 million people, who died for Japan in the conflicts accompanying the [Meiji Restoration](e2130.html), in the Satsuma Rebellion, the First Sino-Japanese War, the Russo-Japanese War, the First World War, the Manchurian Incident, the Second Sino-Japanese War and the Pacific War, are enshrined at Yasukuni Shrine in form of written records, which note name, origin and date and place of death of everyone enshrined.

Tokyo's representative cherry tree

A political controversy surrounds Yasukuni Shrine because since 1978, fourteen class A war criminals have been among the 2.5 million enshrined at Yasukuni. Furthermore, the official visits by several [prime ministers](e2136.html) and cabinet members to the shrine since 1975 have been causing concerns regarding a violation of the principle of separation of church and state.

Next to the shrine buildings stands the Yushukan, a museum that commemorates Japan's wars from a conservative Japanese perspective with much information in English. On the shrine grounds stand hundreds of [cherry trees](e2011.html) including Tokyo's representative tree that is used by the meteorological agency to pronounce the official opening of the blossoms in the city.

Yushukan Museum

Yasukuni Shrine is located a short walk from Kudanshita Station on the Hanzomon, Tozai and Shinjuku subway lines.

### From Tokyo Station

Take the Marunouchi Subway Line from Tokyo Station to Otemachi (1 minute) and then the Hanzomon Subway Line to Kudanshita Station (4 minutes). The one way fare is 180 yen.

### From Shinjuku Station

Take the Shinjuku Subway Line directly from [Shinjuku](e3011.html) to Kudanshita Station. The one way trip takes 8 minutes and costs 220 yen.

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)