---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2005.html
title: Japanese Table Manners
description: Beginner's guide to table manners in Japan.
keywords: japan, table, manner
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 1690
char_count: 11317
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:53:39
---

A restaurant with both tables and tatami seating

### Tables and seating

Some [restaurants](e2036.html) in Japan have low tables and cushions on [tatami floor](e2007.html) instead of (or in addition to) Western-style chairs and tables. [Shoes and slippers](e2001.html) have to be removed before stepping on tatami. Also, avoid stepping onto cushions other than your own. See our [sitting page](e2006.html) for more details about sitting techniques and rules.

### Eating

Wet towels (oshibori) are provided at most restaurant to clean your hands before eating. After ordering, it is common to wait for everyone's order and then to start the meal with the phrase "itadakimasu" ("I gratefully receive"). If a dish is better eaten right away but others at the table have not been served yet, the phrases "osaki ni dōzo" ("please go ahead") or "osaki ni itadakimasu" ("allow me to start before you") can be useful.

When eating from small bowls, it is correct manner to pick up the bowl with your hand and lead it close to your mouth when eating from it; however, larger types of dishes should generally not be picked up. When eating from shared dishes (as it is commonly done at some restaurants such as [izakaya](e2036_izakaya.html)), it is polite to use the opposite end of your [chopsticks](e2039.html) or dedicated serving chopsticks for moving food to your own dish.

Blowing your nose at the table, burping and audible munching are considered bad manners in Japan. On the other hand, it is considered good style to empty your dishes to the last grain of rice. If there are food items that you do not like or cannot eat, replacements may be available at restaurants or ryokan if you tell them in advance. Otherwise, it is advisable to leave the items on the dish.

After finishing your meal, it is generally good manner to return all your dishes to how they were at the start of the meal. This includes replacing the lids on dishes and putting your chopsticks back on the chopstick rest or in its paper holder. Conclude the meal with the phrase "gochisōsama deshita" ("thank you for the feast") which includes gratitude not only towards the cook but also the ingredients consumed.

Rule of thumb: at the end of the meal, return all your dishes to how they were at the start of the meal (minus the food)

### Drinking

Do not start drinking until everybody at the table has a drink and the glasses are raised for a drinking salute, which is usually "kampai".

When drinking [alcoholic beverages](e2037.html), it is customary to serve each other, rather than pour your own drink. Periodically check your friends' cups and refill their drinks if their cups are getting empty. Likewise, if someone wants to serve you more alcohol, you should drink some from your glass before holding it towards that person.

While it is considered bad manners to become obviously drunk in some formal [restaurants](e2036.html), the same is not true for other types of restaurants, such as [izakaya](e2036_izakaya.html), as long as you do not bother other guests.

If you do not drink alcohol, it is no problem to simply say so and request for other beverages instead. Non-alcoholic beverages that are usually available include alcohol-free beer, [tea](e2041.html), juices and carbonated drinks.

Having a kampai before drinking

### How to eat...

* 

  ... rice

  Hold the rice bowl in one hand and the [chopsticks](e2039.html) in the other. Lift the bowl towards your mouth while eating. Do not pour [soy sauce](e2045.html) over white, cooked [rice](e2043.html).
* 

  ... sushi

  Pour some [soy sauce](e2045.html) into the small dish provided. It is considered bad manners to waste soy sauce, so try not to pour more sauce than you will be using.

  You do not need to add [wasabi](e2311.html) into the soy sauce, because [sushi](e2038.html) pieces that go well with wasabi will already contain it. However, if you choose to add wasabi, use only a small amount so as not to overpower the sushi's delicate flavors. If you do not like wasabi, you can request that none is added into your sushi.

  Hands or [chopsticks](e2039.html) can be used to eat sushi. In general, you are supposed to eat a sushi piece in one bite. Attempts to separate a piece into two generally end in the destruction of the beautifully prepared sushi.

  In case of [nigiri-zushi](e2038.html), dip the piece into the soy sauce upside-down so that the fish part rather than the rice enters the sauce. A few kinds of sushi, for example, marinated pieces, should not be dipped into soy sauce because they are already seasoned.

  In case of [gunkan-zushi](e2038.html), pour a small amount of soy sauce over the sushi piece rather than dipping it into the sauce.
* 

  ... sashimi

  Pour some [soy sauce](e2045.html) into the small dish provided. Put some [wasabi](e2311.html) on the sashimi piece, but be careful not to use too much as this will overpower the taste of the fish. Dip the [sashimi](e2044.html) pieces into the soy sauce. Some types of sashimi are enjoyed with ground ginger rather than wasabi.
* 

  ... miso soup

  Drink the [miso soup](e2045_tofu.html) out of the bowl as if it were a cup, and fish out the solid food pieces with your [chopsticks](e2039.html).
* 

  ... noodles

  Using your [chopsticks](e2039.html), lead the noodles into your mouth. You may want to try to copy the slurping sound of people around you if you are dining in a noodle shop. Rather than being bad manner, slurping noodles is considered evidence of enjoying the meal and enhances the flavor.

  In case of [noodle soups](e2035.html#noodle), be careful of splashing the noodles back into the liquid. If a ceramic spoon is provided, use it to drink the soup; otherwise, lift the bowl to your mouth and drink from it directly.
* 

  ... curry rice (and other rice dishes with a sauce)

  [Japanese curry rice](e2351.html) and other [rice dishes](e2043.html), in which the rice is mixed with a sauce (for example, some [domburi dishes](e2342.html)) can be difficult to eat with [chopsticks](e2039.html). Large spoons are often provided for these dishes, instead.
* 

  ... big pieces of food (e.g. prawn tempura, [tofu](e2045_tofu.html), [korokke](/r/e101.html))

  Separate into bite-sized pieces with your [chopsticks](e2039.html) (this takes some exercise), or just bite off a piece and put the rest back onto your plate.