---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2126.html
title: Japanese History\: Overview
description: An overview over Japanese history\: periods and important events.
keywords: history, overview, japan
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 659
char_count: 5357
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:39:12
---

### Jomon Period (- 300 BC)

* The early Japanese were mainly gatherers, hunters and fishers.
* [Read more about the Jomon Period](e2131.html)

### Yayoi Period (300 BC - 250 AD)

* The spread of [rice](e2043.html) farming leads to the development of more complex social hierarchies and larger settlements. Hundreds of small countries emerge and start to unify into larger countries.
* [Read more about the Yayoi Period](e2131.html)

### Kofun Period (250 - 538)

* Japan is for the first time more or less united. Large tombs (kofun) were built for the deceased leaders.
* [Read more about the Kofun Period](e2131.html)

### Asuka Period (538 - 710)

* **538/552** Introduction of [Buddhism](e2055.html).
* **604** Prince Shotoku's Constitution of seventeen articles is promulgated.
* **645** The Taika reform is introduced. The Fujiwara era starts.
* [Read more about the Asuka Period](e2131.html)

### Nara Period (710 - 784)

* **710** [Nara](e2165.html) becomes the first permanent capital.
* **784** The capital moves to Nagaoka.
* [Read more about the Nara Period](e2132.html)

### Heian Period (794 - 1185)

* **794** The capital moves to Heian ([Kyoto](e2158.html)).
* **1016** Fujiwara Michinaga becomes regent, marking the peak of Fujiwara power.
* **1159** The Taira clan under Taira Kiyomori takes over the power after the Heiji war.
* **1175** The [Buddhist Jodo sect](e2055.html) (Pure land sect) is introduced.
* **1180-85** In the Gempei War, the Minamoto clan puts an end to Taira supremacy.
* [Read more about the Heian Period](e2132.html)

### Kamakura Period (1192 - 1333)

* **1191** The [Zen sect](e2055.html) is introduced.
* **1192** Minamoto Yoritomo is appointed shogun and establishes the Kamakura government in [Kamakura](e2166.html).
* **1221** The Jokyu Disturbance ends a struggle between Kamakura and Kyoto, resulting in the supremacy of the Hojo regents in Kamakura.
* **1232** A legal code, the Joei Shikimoku, is promulgated.
* **1274 and 1281** The Mongols try to invade Japan twice, but fail mainly because of bad weather conditions.
* **1333** The Kamakura government falls.
* [Read more about the Kamakura Period](e2133.html)

### Muromachi Period (1338 - 1573)

* **1334** Kemmu Restoration: the emperor restores power over Japan.
* **1336** Ashikaga Takauji captures [Kyoto](e2158.html).
* **1337** The emperor flees and establishes the Southern court in [Yoshino](e4150.html).
* **1338** Takauji establishes the Muromachi government and a second emperor in Kyoto (Northern court).
* **1392** Unification of the Southern and Northern courts.
* **1467-1477** Onin war.
* **1542** Portuguese introduce firearms and [Christianity](e2298.html) to Japan.
* **1568** Nobunaga enters Kyoto.
* **1573** The Muromachi government falls.
* [Read more about the Muromachi Period](e2134.html)

### Azuchi-Momoyama Period (1573 - 1603)

* **1575** The Takeda clan is defeated in the battle of Nagashino.
* **1582** Nobunaga is murdered and succeeded by Toyotomi Hideyoshi.
* **1588** Hideyoshi confiscates the weapons of farmers and religious institutions in the "Sword Hunt".
* **1590** Japan is reunited after the fall of Odawara (Hojo).
* **1592-98** Unsuccessful invasion of Korea.
* **1598** Death of Hideyoshi.
* **1600** Tokugawa Ieyasu defeats his rivals in the battle of Sekigahara.
* [Read more about the Azuchi-Momoyama Period](e2123.html)

### Edo Period (1603 - 1868)

* **1603** Ieyasu is appointed shogun and establishes the Tokugawa government in Edo ([Tokyo](e2164.html)).
* **1615** The Toyotomi clan is destroyed after Ieyasu captures [Osaka Castle](e4000.html).
* **1639** Isolation of Japan from the rest of the world except for strictly regulated trade with China, Korea, the Netherlands, the [Ryukyu Kingdom](/list/e1247.html) and the [Ainu](e2244.html).
* **1688-1703** Genroku era: popular culture flourishes.
* **1792** The Russians unsuccessfully try to establish trade relations with Japan.
* **1854** Commodore Matthew Perry forces the Japanese government to open a limited number of ports for trade.
* [Read more about the Edo Period](e2128.html)

### Meiji Period (1868 - 1912)

* **1868** Meiji Restoration.
* **1868** The capital moves to [Tokyo](e2164.html).
* **1872** First [railway](e2019.html) line between Tokyo and [Yokohama](e2156.html).
* **1889** The Meiji Constitution is promulgated.
* **1894-95** Sino-Japanese War.
* **1904-05** Russo-Japanese War.
* **1910** Annexation of Korea.
* **1912** Death of Emperor Meiji.
* [Read more about the Meiji Period](e2130.html)

### Taisho Period (1912 - 1926)

* **1914-18** Japan joins allied forces in WW1.
* **1923** The [Great Kanto Earthquake](/a/earthquake/) devastates Tokyo and Yokohama.
* [Read more about the Taisho Period](e2129.html)

### Showa Period (1926 - 1989)

* **1931** Manchurian Incident.
* **1937** Second Sino-Japanese War starts.
* **1941** Pacific War starts.
* **1945** Japan surrenders after atomic bombs are dropped over [Hiroshima](e2160.html) and [Nagasaki](e2162.html).
* **1946** The new constitution is promulgated.
* **1952** The Allied Occupation of Japan ends.
* **1956** Japan becomes member of the UN.
* **1972** Normalization of relations with China.
* **1973** Oil crisis.
* [Read more about the Showa Period](e2129.html)

### Heisei Period (1989 - 2019)

* **1992** Burst of the Bubble Economy.
* **1995** The Great Hanshin [Earthquake](e2116.html) hits [Kobe](e2159.html).
* **1995** Sarin Gas attack in the Tokyo subway by Aum sect.
* **2011** The [Great East Japan Earthquake](/news/0018.html) hits the [Tohoku Region](/list/e1102.html).
* [Read more about the Heisei Period](e2124.html)


[## The Basics about Overtourism in Japan

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2126.html+report+topstory+255+338+0+/news/overtourism.html)

[## Tokyo to Osaka, But Not the Usual Way

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2126.html+report+jrkintetsu+1+11+0+/ad/jr-kintetsu-pearl-route/)

[## Our 2025 Travel Highlights

From Our Staff

](/link.html?/e/e2126.html+report+topstory+300+391+0+/news/0061.html)

[## Four spots not to miss on the Boso Peninsula

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2126.html+report+chiba+5+15+0+/ad/boso-activities/)

[## Ultimate Guide to Limited Express Trains

Travel Guide

](/link.html?/e/e2126.html+report+topstory+299+390+0+/e/e2016_limited_express.html)

[## 2025 Autumn Color Reports

Travel Report

](/link.html?/e/e2126.html+report+topstory+298+389+0+/blog/koyo25/)

[## 14 years after the tsunami

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2126.html+report+topstory+297+388+0+/blog/recovery/251028.html)

Plan Your Trip:[History](/e/e641.html)

* [History Overview](/e/e2126.html)
* [Early Japan](/e/e2131.html)
* [Nara and Heian Periods](/e/e2132.html)
* [Kamakura Period](/e/e2133.html)
* [Muromachi Period](/e/e2134.html)
* [Azuchi-Momoyama Period](/e/e2123.html)
* [Edo Period](/e/e2128.html)
* [Meiji Period](/e/e2130.html)
* [Taisho and Early Showa Period](/e/e2129.html)
* [Postwar Period](/e/e2124.html)
* [Emperor](/e/e2135.html)
* [Samurai](/e/e2127.html)
* [Ninja](/e/e2295.html)
* [Ainu](/e/e2244.html)
* [Calendars](/e/e2272.html)

[## The Basics about Overtourism in Japan

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2126.html+report+topstory+255+338+0+/news/overtourism.html)

[## Tokyo to Osaka, But Not the Usual Way

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2126.html+report+jrkintetsu+1+11+0+/ad/jr-kintetsu-pearl-route/)

[## Our 2025 Travel Highlights

From Our Staff

](/link.html?/e/e2126.html+report+topstory+300+391+0+/news/0061.html)

[## Four spots not to miss on the Boso Peninsula

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2126.html+report+chiba+5+15+0+/ad/boso-activities/)

[## Ultimate Guide to Limited Express Trains

Travel Guide

](/link.html?/e/e2126.html+report+topstory+299+390+0+/e/e2016_limited_express.html)

[## 2025 Autumn Color Reports

Travel Report

](/link.html?/e/e2126.html+report+topstory+298+389+0+/blog/koyo25/)

[## 14 years after the tsunami

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2126.html+report+topstory+297+388+0+/blog/recovery/251028.html)