---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2451.html
title: Outlet Malls in Japan
description: A basic introduction to outlet malls in Japan.
keywords: outlet, premium, mall, malls, shopping, shop, store, shops, stores, buy, buying, japan, japanese
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 505
char_count: 3794
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:47:01
---

Outlet malls are popular [shopping](e2450.html) venues in Japan. They carry both domestic and international brands, including fashion, electronics, food, sports, household and luxury goods. While prices at outlet malls are not ridiculously cheap, they tend to be better than at regular retail shops. Outlet malls often have sales at different times during the year when prices are further reduced. Many offer [tax free shopping](e2450_how.html) to foreign tourists.

Outlet malls tend to be built with an open-air design, incorporating open plazas and covered walkways that connect the shops. They also feature restaurants and/or a food court on the premises. Facilities and services such as [ATMs](e2208.html), lockers, rental wheelchairs and rental baby strollers are commonly provided. Some outlet malls also have an event space for live music or entertainment, creating a festive atmosphere.

There are more than 30 outlet malls nationwide from [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html) in the north to [Okinawa](/list/e1247.html) in the south, although most are found in the [Kanto](/list/e1103.html) and [Kansai](/list/e1105.html) regions where they are usually built outside of the city centers near major [airports](e2365.html) and [expressways](e2354.html). Aside from a few independent ones, most outlet malls in Japan are managed by three companies: Mitsui Outlet Park, Premium Outlets and The Outlets by Aeon Mall. In general, though, most outlets malls tend to have similar brand stores. Below are some of Japan's most popular outlet malls:

* 

  [Near Hakone](e5200.html)

  [Gotemba Premium Outlets](e5213.html)

  The [Gotemba Premium Outlets](e5213.html) are one of Japan's largest and most popular outlet malls. The mall is located at the base of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html), not far from [Hakone](e5200.html). It is easily accessible by bus from Hakone or Gotemba Station, but there are also direct buses from [Tokyo](e2164.html).
* 

  [Karuizawa](e6030.html)

  Karuizawa Prince Shopping Plaza

  [Karuizawa Prince Shopping Plaza](e6032.html#prince) is another of Japan's largest outlet malls, attractively located next to the main station of [Karuizawa](e6030.html), a popular up-scale mountain resort. Visitors can combine shopping with sightseeing, [golf](e2082.html) in summer and [skiing](e2262.html) in winter.
* 

  [Near Tokyo](e2164.html)

  Mitsui Outlet Park Kisarazu

  Mitsui Outlet Park Kisarazu is the largest outlet mall in Japan with almost 250 shops. It lies across the bay from [Tokyo](e2164.html) and is directly connected to central Tokyo and [Yokohama](e2156.html) by [highway bus](e2366.html).
* 

  [Near Osaka](e2157.html)

  Rinku Premium Outlets

  The Rinku Premium Outlets are located just one train stop away from [Osaka'](e2157.html)s [Kansai International Airport](e2033.html) at Rinku Town.
* 

  [Near Sapporo](e2163.html)

  Rera Chitose Outlet Mall

  Located near [New Chitose Airport](e2435.html) outside [Sapporo](e2163.html), this outlet mall is connected with the airport by free shuttle buses or accessible in a few steps from JR Minami-Chitose Station. It is one of the few outlet malls that sees heavy [snow](e2265.html) in the winter.