---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2361_01.html
title: Hokkaido Rail Pass
description: Explaining JR's Hokkaido Rail Pass\: validity, purchase, use.
keywords: JR, Hokkaido, rail, pass
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 619
char_count: 4832
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:46:45
---

The **Hokkaido Rail Pass** is a [rail pass](e2357.html) for exclusive use by non-Japanese travelers, providing unlimited travel on JR trains (except the [Hokkaido Shinkansen](e2018_hokkaido.html)) and most JR buses in [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html) on five, seven or ten consecutive days.

|  |
| --- |
| [**Purchase the Hokkaido Rail Pass**](https://affiliate.japan-experience.com/click?o=4&a=31&link_id=177) |

Hokkaido Rail Pass

|  | If purchased outside Japan | If puchased inside Japan |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 5-day Pass | 22,000 yen | 23,000 yen |
| 7-day Pass | 28,000 yen | 29,000 yen |
| 10-day Pass | 37,000 yen | 38,000 yen |

* A green car version is not available; reduced rates (50% off) apply to children aged 6-11.

Below is a map of major train lines that can be used with the Hokkaido Rail Pass:

### Validity

1. Unlimited use of JR trains in [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html) except the [Hokkaido Shinkansen](e2018_hokkaido.html).
2. Unlimited use of local JR Hokkaido Bus lines, except the lines from Sapporo to Asahikawa, Monbetsu, Obihiro, Hiroo and Erimo, the line from Tomakomai to Erimo, and buses between Shin-Sapporo and Atsubetsu Stadium and between Shiroishi and Sapporo Dome.
3. Seat reservations can be made for free (see details [below](#seat)).
4. The pass is valid on consecutive calendar days (midnight to midnight).
5. The pass can be purchased and used only by holders of non-Japanese passports, including foreign residents of Japan.

### Points of sale

The Hokkaido Rail Pass can be purchased through various websites [on the internet](https://affiliate.japan-experience.com/click?o=4&a=31&link_id=177), through travel agencies outside of Japan and at major JR railway stations in [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html), including Sapporo, New Chitose Airport and Hakodate stations. When purchasing the pass outside of Japan or online, the actual pass has to be picked up at a major station in Hokkaido before use.

|  |
| --- |
| [**Purchase the Hokkaido Rail Pass**](https://affiliate.japan-experience.com/click?o=4&a=31&link_id=177) |

### Seat reservations

Free seat reservations can be made at seat reservation ticket machines in Hokkaido and at JR ticket offices. It is also possible to make online seat reservations on the [JR East Train Reservation website](https://www.eki-net.com/en/jreast-train-reservation/Top/Index); however, physical seat reservation tickets have to be picked up at a selected ticket office in Hokkaido before use. Note that seat reservations are mandatory on several [limited express](e2016.html#category) trains on Hokkaido.

### Assessment

This pass makes sense only if you plan on traveling long distances. The table below shows approximate regular fares for one-way [limited express](e2016.html#category) tickets between selected major cities. Use it to compare the cost of regular tickets with the cost of a Hokkaido Rail Pass:

|  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | Asahikawa | Hakodate | Wakkanai | Kushiro |
| Sapporo | 5,000 yen | 10,000 yen | 11,000 yen | 10,500 yen |
| Asahikawa |  | 13,500 yen | 8,500 yen | 14,000 yen |
| Hakodate |  |  | 17,500 yen | 16,500 yen |
| Wakkanai |  |  |  | 17,500 yen |