---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2296.html
title: Japanese castles
description: A tourist's basic introduction to Japanese castles (shiro).
keywords: japan, castle, castles, japanese, shiro, oshiro
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 951
char_count: 7992
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:40:52
---

### History of castles

Fortresses have been built in Japan since early times. A particular need for castles arose in the [15th century](e2134.html) after the central government's authority had weakened and Japan had fallen into the chaotic [era of warring states](e2134.html) (sengoku jidai). During that era, Japan consisted of dozens of small independent states which fought each other and built small castles on top of mountains for defense purposes.

When [Oda Nobunaga](e2123.html) reestablished a central authority over Japan in the second half of the 16th century, and his successor [Toyotomi Hideyoshi](e2123.html) completed the reunification of Japan, many larger castles were built across the country. Unlike the earlier castles, they were built in the plains or on small hills in the plains, where they served as a region's administrative and military headquarters and a symbol of authority. They became the centers of "castle towns".

After the [end of the feudal age](e2130.html) (1868), many castles were destroyed as unwelcome relics of the past or were lost in [World War II](e2129.html). Only a dozen "original castles", i.e. castles with a main keep that dates from the [feudal era](e2128.html) (before 1868), survive today. Furthermore, several dozen castles were reconstructed over the past decades - mostly using concrete instead of traditional building materials.

### Castle structures and castle towns

The typical castle consisted of multiple rings of defense, with the so called honmaru ("main circle") in the center followed by the ninomaru ("second circle") and possibly some additional circles of defense. The castle tower stood in the honmaru, while the lords usually lived in a more comfortable palace residence in the honmaru or ninomaru.

In the town around the castle, the [samurai](e2127.html) were residing. The higher their rank, the closer they lived to the castle. Merchants and artisans lived in separate districts, while [temple](e2058.html) and entertainment districts were usually located in the outskirts or just outside of the city. [Tokyo](e2164.html) and [Kanazawa](e2167.html) are two good examples among many cities that evolved as castle towns.

The main construction material for castles used to be wood, as can be witnessed when visiting the interior of one of the surviving original castles. Most newer reconstructions, however, were made of concrete, and their interiors are modern. Many castles now house a museum.

The following are some typical castle structures:

* 

  Castle tower (tenshukaku)

  Example: castle tower of [Kumamoto Castle](e4501.html)

  Also known as donjon or castle keep, this is the innermost, best defended and most prominent structure of a castle. Most castle towers have between two to five stories, and there are often more floors inside than there are stories on the outside.
* 

  Walls and moats

  Example: castle walls and moat of [Osaka Castle](e4000.html)

  Several rings of walls and moats serve as the main defense measure of castles. Osaka Castle and the former Edo Castle (now [Tokyo's Imperial Palace](e3017.html)) offer the most impressive examples.
* 

  Guard towers (yagura)

  Example: a guard tower of [Hiroshima Castle](e3402.html)

  Also known as turrets, these are watch towers and storage rooms along the castle walls, often placed at the corners. Castles usually have multiple guard towers. They are much smaller in size than the main castle tower and are usually made up of two floors.
* 

  Gates

  Example: Sakurada Gate of the [former Edo Castle](e3018.html)

  Castles have a number of well defended entrance gates. The typical castle gate consists of two gates which are placed at a 90 degree angle to each other, creating a small inner yard which is heavily defended from all sides.
* 

  Palace (goten)

  Example: partially reconstructed palace of [Kumamoto Castle](e4501.html)

  The palace houses the lord's residence and offices. Most castles have lost their palace over time. A rare surviving example is the Ninomaru Palace of [Nijo Castle](e3918.html). Among the few castles with reconstructed palaces are [Kumamoto Castle](e4501.html), [Hikone Castle](e7001.html) and [Nagoya Castle](e3300.html).

Original Castles

* [](/e/e3501.html)

  1

  Castle

  [Himeji Castle•••](/e/e3501.html)

  Japan's best preserved feudal castle.

  4.5

  

  2,564
* [](/e/e6051.html)

  2

  Castle

  [Matsumoto Castle••](/e/e6051.html)

  Original and relatively complete castle.

  4.3

  

  1,036
* [](/e/e5777.html)

  3

  Castle

  [Matsuyama Castle•](/e/e5777.html)

  Japan's only original mountaintop castle.

  4.5

  

  81
* [](/e/e5801.html)

  4

  Castle

  [Matsue Castle•](/e/e5801.html)

  One of Japan's largest, original castle towers.

  4.0

  

  366
* [](/e/e7001.html)

  5

  Castle

  [Hikone Castle•](/e/e7001.html)

  A designated national treasure.

  4.0

  

  567
* [](/e/e5501.html)

  6

  Castle

  [Matsuyama Castle•](/e/e5501.html)

  Relatively complete, original castle.

  3.9

  

  481
* [](/e/e3700.html)

  7

  Castle

  [Hirosaki Castle•](/e/e3700.html)

  Most famous cherry blossom spot in Tohoku.

  3.8

  

  340
* [](/e/e3351.html)

  8

  Castle

  [Inuyama Castle•](/e/e3351.html)

  One of Japan's oldest surviving castles.

  3.8

  

  472
* [](/e/e5601.html)

  9

  Castle

  [Kochi Castle•](/e/e5601.html)

  One of Japan's few surviving original castles.

  3.7

  

  360
* [](/e/e6605.html)

  10

  Castle

  [Maruoka Castle](/e/e6605.html)

  One of the twelve original castles.

  3.6

  

  55
* [](/e/e5469.html)

  11

  Castle

  [Marugame Castle](/e/e5469.html)

  Smallest keep among the original castles.

  3.5

  

  94
* [](/e/e5577.html)

  12

  Castle

  [Uwajima Castle](/e/e5577.html)

  Original hilltop castle with a small keep.

  3.4

  

  55

Reconstructions

* [](/e/e7103.html)

  1

  Castle

  [Shuri Castle•](/e/e7103.html)

  Reconstructed former Ryukyu royal palace.

  4.1

  

  848
* [](/e/e4501.html)

  2

  Castle

  [Kumamoto Castle•](/e/e4501.html)

  Beautiful reconstruction of the original castle.

  4.0

  

  969
* [](/e/e4000.html)

  3

  Castle

  [Osaka Castle•](/e/e4000.html)

  Reconstruction of the large castle.

  3.8

  

  3,922
* [](/e/e7703.html)

  4

  Castle

  [Tsuruga Castle•](/e/e7703.html)

  Modern reconstruction of the original castle.

  3.7

  

  352
* [](/e/e3300.html)

  5

  Castle

  [Nagoya Castle•](/e/e3300.html)

  Reconstruction of the original castle.

  3.6

  

  1,727
* [](/e/e4352.html)

  6

  Castle

  [Ueno Castle•](/e/e4352.html)

  Beautifully reconstructed feudal castle.

  3.3

  

  322
* [](/e/e5527.html)

  7

  Castle

  [Ozu Castle](/e/e5527.html)

  Recently reconstructed, pretty hilltop castle.

  3.8

  

  41
* [](/e/e4492.html)

  8

  Castle

  [Hirado Castle](/e/e4492.html)

  Reconstruction on the hill overlooking the port.

  3.7

  

  23
* [](/e/e5222.html)

  9

  Castle

  [Odawara Castle](/e/e5222.html)

  A reconstructed castle at the entrance to Hakone.

  3.5

  

  140
* [](/e/e3402.html)

  10

  Castle

  [Hiroshima Castle](/e/e3402.html)

  Reconstruction of the former castle.

  3.4

  

  1,789
* [](/e/e4454.html)

  11

  Castle

  [Shimabara Castle](/e/e4454.html)

  Reconstructed castle with nearby samurai district.

  3.4

  

  79
* [](/e/e6178.html)

  12

  Castle

  [Iwakuni Castle](/e/e6178.html)

  Reconstructed mountain top castle.

  3.4

  

  241
* [](/e/e5934.html)

  13

  Castle

  [Hachiman Castle](/e/e5934.html)

  Mountaintop castle overlooking the town.

  3.3

  

  108
* [](/e/e5702.html)

  14

  Castle

  [Okayama Castle](/e/e5702.html)

  Reconstruction of the former castle.

  3.3

  

  723
* [](/e/e4879.html)

  15

  Castle

  [Kokura Castle](/e/e4879.html)

  Reconstructed castle not far from the station.

  3.1

  

  93
* [](/e/e3433.html)

  16

  Castle

  [Fukuyama Castle](/e/e3433.html)

  Postwar reconstruction right next to the station.

  3.0

  

  52
* [](/e/e7502.html)

  17

  Castle

  [Toyama Castle Park](/e/e7502.html)

  Home to a reconstructed castle tower.

  2.7

  

  68
* [](/e/e6609.html)

  18

  Castle

  [Echizen Ono Castle](/e/e6609.html)

  Reconstructed hilltop castle.

  5

Palace Style Castles and Ruins

* [](/e/e3918.html)

  1

  Castle

  [Nijo Castle••](/e/e3918.html)

  Former Kyoto residence of the shogun.

  4.0

  

  3,184
* [](/e/e3592.html)

  2

  [Takeda Castle Ruins•](/e/e3592.html)

  Hilltop castle ruins sometimes floating on a sea of clouds.

  4.4

  

  33
* [](/e/e7107.html)

  3

  Castle

  [Nakagusuku Castle•](/e/e7107.html)

  Beautiful ruins of a former Ryukyu castle.

  3.8

  

  231
* [](/e/e3018.html)

  4

  Castle

  [Imperial East Gardens•](/e/e3018.html)

  Park on the former grounds of Edo Castle.

  3.8

  

  2,907
* [](/e/e4202.html)

  5

  Castle

  [Kanazawa Castle•](/e/e4202.html)

  Slowly being reconstructed.

  3.4

  

  1,038
* [](/e/e7110.html)

  6

  Castle

  [Nakijin Castle](/e/e7110.html)

  Ruins of another former Ryukyu castle.

  3.7

  

  217
* [](/e/e5879.html)

  7

  Castle

  [Tsuwano Castle Ruins](/e/e5879.html)

  Located two hundred meters above the town.

  3.4

  

  30
* [](/e/e8103.html)

  8

  Castle

  [Tottori Castle Ruins](/e/e8103.html)

  Ruins of the former feudal castle.

  3.3

  

  60
* [](/e/e5152.html)

  9

  Castle

  [Aoba Castle](/e/e5152.html)

  Ruins of the former castle of the Date clan.

  3.3

  

  476
* [](/e/e7527.html)

  10

  Castle

  [Takaoka Castle Park](/e/e7527.html)

  Former site of the short-lived Takaoka Castle.

  3.1

  

  22
* [](/e/e6504.html)

  11

  Castle

  [Honmaru Goten](/e/e6504.html)

  Kawagoe Castle's only remaining building.

  3.1

  

  214
* [](/e/e6152.html)

  12

  Castle

  [Hagi Castle](/e/e6152.html)

  Ruins of the former Hagi Castle.

  3.0

  

  175
* [](/e/e6352.html)

  13

  Castle

  [Sumpu Castle](/e/e6352.html)

  Ruins of Tokugawa Ieyasu's former castle.

  3.0

  

  94
* [](/e/e4806.html)

  14

  Castle

  [Fukuoka Castle Ruins](/e/e4806.html)

  Ruins of the city's former castle.

  3.0

  

  674
* [](/e/e5403.html)

  15

  Castle

  [Takamatsu Castle](/e/e5403.html)

  Ruins of one of Japan's few seaside castles.

  2.7

  

  270