---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2077.html
title: 100 Yen Shop
description: Basic introduction to 100 Yen Shops in Japan.
keywords: 100, yen, shop, shops, hyakkin, japan, store, stores
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 560
char_count: 4004
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:46:45
---

100 yen shops (100円ショップ, Hyaku En Shop or 百均, Hyakkin) are a type of discount store that sell a wide range of products for 100 [yen](e2196.html) plus [consumption tax](e2206.html). This corresponds roughly to one US dollar, making these shops a great source for travelers and residents [on a budget](e2028.html).

Typically everything in the store costs 100 yen per item; however, they often sell smaller things, such as candy and snacks, in multiples of 2 or 3 for 100 yen. Some stores also sell selected items for more than 100 yen, which are usually priced in multiples of 100 yen. These items will be clearly marked, and, although more expensive, are usually still a good value for the price.

### What do 100 yen shops sell

100 yen shops are able to offer an amazing range of products, many of which are their own store-branded goods, at a price that is sometimes below the products' actual value. They do this mainly by purchasing products in huge quantities directly from manufacturers in countries with low production and labor costs.

Below is a selection of products typically found at 100 yen shops:

* 

  Tableware

  Plates, rice and miso soup bowls, tea cups, sake sets, forks, etc.
* 

  Kitchenware

  Kitchen knives, dippers, microwave containers, coffee filters, detergent, aluminum foil, etc.
* 

  Tools

  Hammers, measuring tapes, pliers, screwdriver sets, cutter knives, etc.
* 

  Gardenware

  Watering pots, mini rakes, containers, etc.
* 

  Stationery

  Boxes, report pads, memo pads, pens, pins, calligraphy brushes, etc.
* 

  Household goods

  Sewing threads, towels, socks, slippers, etc.
* 

  Leisure goods

  Ping pong sets, swimming goggles, dictionaries, etc.

### Where to find 100 yen shops

There are thousands of 100 yen shops across Japan, ranging in size from multi-story "department stores" to small corners in shopping malls. Market leader Daiso operates over 3000 stores nationwide. Below is a list of some large and relatively easily accessible Daiso branches in a few major cities:

#### [Tokyo](e2164.html)

* The **Arcakit Kinshicho Store** is located on the 7th floor of Arcakit, a mall located a few steps from Kinshicho Station's north exit.
* The **Decks Tokyo Beach Store** is located on the 4th floor of the [Decks Tokyo Beach](e3008.html#decks) mall in [Odaiba](e3008.html), a short walk from Odaiba Kaihinkoen Station on the Yurikamome.

#### [Kyoto](e2158.html)

* The **Aeon Mall Kyoto Store** is located on the 4th floor of Aeon Mall Kyoto, which stands a five minute walk from the Hachijo exit of [Kyoto Station](e3922.html).

#### [Osaka](e2157.html)

* The **Shinsaibashi-suji Ni-chome Store** is located along the [Shinsaibashi-suji Shopping Arcade](e4001.html#shinsaibashi), not far from the [Dotonbori Bridge](e4001.html) or a five minute walk from Namba Station's exit number 14.

#### [Nagoya](e2155.html)

* The **Nagoya Sakae Skyle Store** is located on the 7th floor of Skyle, a mall standing a few steps from [Sakae Station](e3304.html)'s exit number 11.

#### [Fukuoka](e2161.html)

* The **Hakata Bus Terminal Store** is located on the 5th floor of the Hakata Bus Terminal, a few steps from the west side of Hakata Station.

#### [Sapporo](e2163.html)

* The **Celesta Higashikuyakushoeki-mae Store** is located in the Celesta shopping center, reached from exit number 4 of Higashikuyakusho-mae Station along the Toho Subway Line.