---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2361_05.html
title: Kyushu Rail Pass
description: About the JR Kyushu Rail Pass, a rail pass for unlimited train use on the island of Kyushu.
keywords: JR, kyushu, Rail, Pass, northern, southern
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 730
char_count: 5352
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:46:03
---

The **Kyushu Rail Pass** by JR Kyushu is a [rail pass](e2357.html) for exclusive use by foreign visitors to Japan, providing unlimited travel on [JR trains](e2019.html) on the island of [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html) (except the [Sanyo Shinkansen](e2018_sanyo.html)) for two, three, five or seven consecutive days.

|  |
| --- |
| [**Purchase the Kyushu Rail Pass**](https://affiliate.japan-experience.com/click?a=31&o=4&link_id=187) |

|  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **Kyushu Rail Pass** | | |
| All Kyushu | 3 days | 22,000 yen |
| 5 days | 24,000 yen |
| 7 days | 26,000 yen |
| Northern Kyushu | 3 days | 15,000 yen |
| 5 days | 17,000 yen |
| Southern Kyushu | 3 days | 12,000 yen |
| Reduced rates (50% off) apply to children aged 6-11.  1000 yen off if you book through the official JR Kyushu website. | | |

Below are maps of the train lines, which can be used with the JR Kyushu Rail Pass:

### Validity

1. Unlimited use of [JR Kyushu](e2019.html) trains on [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html), including all trains along the [Kyushu Shinkansen](e2018_kyushu.html) (Fukuoka-Kagoshima), [Nishikyushu Shinkansen](e2018_nishikyushu.html) and [limited express](e2016.html) trains, but excluding the [Sanyo Shinkansen](e2018_sanyo.html) (Fukuoka-Osaka, operated by JR West). The Northern Kyushu version of the pass is not valid south of Oita and [Misumi](e4589.html), while the Southern Kyushu version is not valid north of Kumamoto and Oita.
2. Seat reservations can be made for free. There is an upper limit of six free seat reservations for the Northern and Southern Kyushu passes, but there is no limit for the All Kyushu Pass. Seat reservations can also be made via an [online reservation](https://kyushurailpass.jrkyushu.co.jp/reserve/) for 1000-1500 yen.
3. The pass is valid on consecutive days. The validity is based on calendar days (midnight to midnight) as opposed to 24-hour periods.
4. Only foreign [temporary visitors](e2221.html) to Japan can use the Kyushu Rail Pass. It cannot be used by residents of Japan.
5. The pass can be used only by a single person. It cannot be transferred between multiple persons. The pass holder has to carry his/her passport at all times.

### Points of sale

The Kyushu Rail Pass can be purchased through various websites [on the internet](https://affiliate.japan-experience.com/click?a=31&o=4&link_id=187), through travel agencies outside of Japan and at a few major JR railway stations and travel agencies in [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html) (note that the northern and southern versions are sold only in their respective coverage areas). If purchasing the pass outside of Japan or via the internet, the actual pass has to be picked up at a major station in the area covered or at a counter in Fukuoka Airport's international terminal before use. If you purchase the pass via the [official JR Kyushu website](https://www.jrkyushu.co.jp/english/), the cost is discounted by 1000 yen.

|  |
| --- |
| [**Purchase the Kyushu Rail Pass**](https://affiliate.japan-experience.com/click?a=31&o=4&link_id=187) |

### Assessment

This pass can be of good value, as a roundtrip between [Fukuoka](e2161.html) and [Kagoshima](e4600.html) alone costs around 20,000 yen by regular tickets, which is the same as the cost of a 3-day pass.

### Alternative tickets

The [Sun Q Pass](e2357_014.html) is a similar offer to the Kyushu Rail Pass except that it is valid on [local buses](e2015.html) and [highway buses](e2366.html) instead of trains. Depending on the itinerary, either pass could be more suitable. Unlike the Kyushu Rail Pass, the Sun Q Pass is also available to residents of Japan.

The [Fukuoka Wide Pass](e2361_fukuoka.html) is a digital 2-day pass, which covers JR trains just around [Fukuoka Prefecture](/list/e1242.html), i.e. its coverage area is even smaller than that of the Northern Kyushu Pass.