---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2015.html
title: Buses in Japan
description: A tourist guide to using buses in Japan.
keywords: japan, bus, buses, japanese, public, transportation, travel
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 746
char_count: 5173
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:45:17
---

This page is about local and short-distance buses in Japan and how to use them. Visit our [highway bus page](e2366.html) for more information on long-distance bus travel.

In [Tokyo](e2164.html), [Osaka](e2157.html) and some other large [cities](/list/e1003.html), buses serve as a secondary means of public transportation, complementing the [train](e2019.html) and subway networks. In cities with less dense train networks like [Kyoto](e2158.html), buses are the main means of public transportation. Buses also serve smaller towns, the countryside and [national parks](e2325.html).

### How to use buses

Using buses in Japan can be intimidating to foreign tourists (and even Japanese people) because there are different ticketing systems depending on the company, and recognizing the stop that you want to get off can be challenging. While some bus companies do a good job at providing English signs, timetables and announcements, many buses lack English information. Below is a description of the most common system, followed by notes about exceptions:

1. Enter the bus through the back door.
2. When boarding, pick up a ticket from a small machine near the door. A number is printed on the ticket, which you will later use to determine your fare. If you use an [IC card](e2359_003.html) to pay the fare, you don't need to pick up a ticket and instead should touch your IC card against the card reader near the door.
3. A display above the driver shows the next stop and the fares for that stop in [yen](e2196.html). To determine your fare, match the number on your ticket with the number and fare on the display. If you use an IC card, then you do not have to worry about this.
4. When your stop is approaching, press one of the buttons on the wall to signal the driver that you wish to get off.
5. If you do not have the exact fare, use the changing machine next to the driver to get small coins.
6. When getting off, put your ticket and the exact fare into the box next to the driver. If you use an [IC card](e2359_003.html), touch the card against the card reader.

In many cities or city centers, for example in central [Kyoto](e2158.html), a flat fare applies, i.e. you always pay the same price regardless of how far you travel. This means that you do not have to worry about steps 2) and 3) in the above description.

Of course, there are a few exceptions to the above outlined system. The most prominent exception are buses which you are supposed to enter through the front door, pay a flat fare when entering, and exit through the rear door, for example, city buses in [Tokyo](e2164.html).

### Luggage on local buses

Although policies vary, many bus companies ask that passengers do not bring large pieces of [luggage](e2274.html) onto local buses and limit themselves to small or medium bags of up to 10 kilograms. Travelers with larger suitcases are encouraged to use [taxis](e2021.html) and [luggage delivery services](e2274.html#delivery). Airport and [long-distance buses](e2366.html) have less restrictive luggage policies.

A button for signaling that you wish to get off at the next stop


[## The Basics about Overtourism in Japan

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2015.html+report+topstory+255+338+0+/news/overtourism.html)

[## Tokyo to Osaka, But Not the Usual Way

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2015.html+report+jrkintetsu+1+11+0+/ad/jr-kintetsu-pearl-route/)

[## Ultimate Guide to Limited Express Trains

Travel Guide

](/link.html?/e/e2015.html+report+topstory+299+390+0+/e/e2016_limited_express.html)

[## Four spots not to miss on the Boso Peninsula

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2015.html+report+chiba+5+15+0+/ad/boso-activities/)

[## 2025 Autumn Color Reports

Travel Report

](/link.html?/e/e2015.html+report+topstory+298+389+0+/blog/koyo25/)

[## 14 years after the tsunami

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2015.html+report+topstory+297+388+0+/blog/recovery/251028.html)

[## A visit to Legoland Resort Nagoya

Traveling with Kids

](/link.html?/e/e2015.html+report+topstory+291+381+0+/blog/traveling-with-kids/250701.html)

[More Stories](/news/s_transport/)

Plan Your Trip:[Transportation](/e/e627.html)

* [Tickets & Passes](/e/e2357.html)
* [Rail Pass Calculator](/railpass/)
* [Trains](/e/e2019.html)

+ [Shinkansen](/e/e2018.html)

- [Tokaido Shinkansen](/e/e2018_tokaido.html)
- [Sanyo Shinkansen](/e/e2018_sanyo.html)
- [Kyushu Shinkansen](/e/e2018_kyushu.html)
- [Nishikyushu Shinkansen](/e/e2018_nishikyushu.html)
- [Tohoku Shinkansen](/e/e2018_tohoku.html)
- [Hokkaido Shinkansen](/e/e2018_hokkaido.html)
- [Joetsu Shinkansen](/e/e2018_joetsu.html)
- [Hokuriku Shinkansen](/e/e2018_nagano.html)

+ [Limited Express Trains](/e/e2016_limited_express.html)
+ [Rail Passes & Tickets](/e/e2359.html)

- [Regular Train Tickets](/e/e2359_001.html)
- [IC cards](/e/e2359_003.html)
- [Rail Passes](/e/e2357.html)
- [Japan Rail Pass (JR Pass)](/e/e2361.html)
- [Railpass Calculator](/railpass/)
- [Seishun 18 Kippu](/e/e2362.html)
- [JR Hokkaido Rail Pass](/e/e2361_01.html)
- [JR Sapporo-Noboribetsu Area Pass](/e/e2361_noboribetsu.html)
- [JR Sapporo-Furano Area Pass](/e/e2361_furano.html)
- [JR Tohoku South Hokkaido Rail Pass](/e/e2361_tohoku_hokkaido.html)
- [JR East South Hokkaido Rail Pass](/e/e2361_southhokkaido.html)
- [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](/e/e2361_tohoku.html)
- [Sendai Area Pass](/e/e2361_sendai.html)
- [JR East Nagano Niigata Area Pass](/e/e2361_nagano_niigata.html)
- [JR Tokyo Wide Pass](/e/e2361_06.html)
- [Mt.Fuji Shizuoka Area Tourist Pass](/e/e2361_fuji_shizuoka.html)
- [Hokuriku Arch Pass](/e/e2361_arch.html)
- [Takayama Hokuriku Tourist Pass](/e/e2361_takayama_hokuriku.html)
- [Alpine Takayama Matsumoto Tourist Pass](/e/e2361_alpen.html)
- [JR Hokuriku Area Pass](/e/e2361_hokuriku.html)
- [JR Kansai Hokuriku Area Pass](/e/e2361_kansai_hokuriku.html)
- [Ise Kumano Wakayama Area Tourist Pass](/e/e2361_ise_kumano.html)
- [Kansai Passes](/e/e2357_kansai.html)
- [JR West One-Way Tickets](/e/e2361_jrwest.html)
- [Kansai Railway Pass](/e/e2357_005.html)
- [JR Kansai Mini Pass](/e/e2361_kansai_mini.html)
- [JR Kansai Area Pass](/e/e2361_03.html)
- [JR Kansai Wide Area Pass](/e/e2361_08.html)
- [Kintetsu Rail Pass](/e/e2357_006.html)
- [JR West All Area Pass](/e/e2361_west.html)
- [JR Kansai Hiroshima Area Pass](/e/e2361_kansai_hiroshima.html)
- [JR Setouchi Area Pass](/e/e2361_setouchi.html)
- [JR Sanyo Sanin Area Pass](/e/e2361_sanyo_sanin.html)
- [JR Sanyo Sanin Northern Kyushu Pass](/e/e2361_sanyo_sanin_kyushu.html)
- [JR Kansai Sanin Pass](/e/e2361_sanin.html)
- [Tottori Matsue Pass](/e/e2361_tottori_matsue.html)
- [JR Hiroshima Yamaguchi Area Pass](/e/e2361_hiroshima_yamaguchi.html)
- [JR Okayama Hiroshima Yamaguchi Area Pass](/e/e2361_okayama_yamaguchi.html)
- [All Shikoku Pass](/e/e2357_shikoku.html)
- [JR Kyushu Rail Pass](/e/e2361_05.html)
- [JR Fukuoka Wide Pass](/e/e2361_fukuoka.html)

+ [Night Trains](/e/e2356.html)
+ [How to use trains](/e/e2016.html)
+ [Train Timetables](/e/e2323.html)
+ [Rush Hours](/e/e2020.html)

* [Flights](/planning/transportation/flights.html)

+ [International Air Travel](/e/e2034.html)
+ [Domestic Air Travel](/e/e2365.html)
+ [Domestic Air Discounts](/e/e2364.html)

* [Buses](/planning/transportation/bus.html)

+ [Local Buses](/e/e2015.html)
+ [Highway Buses](/e/e2366.html)
+ [Sun Q Pass](/e/e2357_014.html)
+ [Timetable: Mount Fuji 5th Station](/bus/fuji.html)
+ [Timetable: Mount Fuji Climbing Season](/bus/fuji_season.html)
+ [Timetable: Gotemba-Kawaguchiko](/bus/gotemba.html)
+ [Timetable: Shirakawago](/bus/shirakawago.html)
+ [Timetable: Gokayama](/bus/gokayama.html)
+ [Timetable: Kiso Valley](/bus/kiso.html)

* [Driving](/e/e2022.html)

+ [Rental Cars](/e/e2024.html)
+ [Expressways](/e/e2354.html)

* [Taxis](/e/e2021.html)
* [Ferries](/e/e2355.html)
* [Bicycles](/e/e2210.html)

[## The Basics about Overtourism in Japan

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2015.html+report+topstory+255+338+0+/news/overtourism.html)

[## Tokyo to Osaka, But Not the Usual Way

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2015.html+report+jrkintetsu+1+11+0+/ad/jr-kintetsu-pearl-route/)

[## Ultimate Guide to Limited Express Trains

Travel Guide

](/link.html?/e/e2015.html+report+topstory+299+390+0+/e/e2016_limited_express.html)

[## Four spots not to miss on the Boso Peninsula

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2015.html+report+chiba+5+15+0+/ad/boso-activities/)

[## 2025 Autumn Color Reports

Travel Report

](/link.html?/e/e2015.html+report+topstory+298+389+0+/blog/koyo25/)

[## 14 years after the tsunami

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2015.html+report+topstory+297+388+0+/blog/recovery/251028.html)

[## A visit to Legoland Resort Nagoya

Traveling with Kids

](/link.html?/e/e2015.html+report+topstory+291+381+0+/blog/traveling-with-kids/250701.html)

[More Stories](/news/s_transport/)