---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2045.html
title: Soybeans in Japan
description: Basic introduction to soybeans in Japan
keywords: soya, soy, soybeans, soybean, beans, bean, japan, miso, natto, tofu, vegetarian, shoyu, sauce, vegan
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 1282
char_count: 8911
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:53:31
---

Soybeans are a versatile food and one of the central ingredients of [Japanese cuisine](e620.html). They constitute the basis of many distinct Japanese flavors, such as [soy sauce](#soysauce), [miso](#miso) and [tofu](e2045_tofu.html), and are processed into countless culinary products. Some of the most important soy products in Japanese cooking include:

* 

  Soybeans

  Soybeans are processed and eaten in many different ways. Boiled soybeans still in the pod are called edamame and are a popular appetizer, often as an accompaniment to [beer](e2037_beer.html). Soybeans are also roasted or used whole as an ingredient in rice crackers. Roasted soybeans are also eaten during the [Setsubun](e2285.html) festival to drive out evil spirits and welcome luck into the home.
* 

  Natto

  Natto are fermented soybeans. Its sticky texture and strong, unique flavor make natto an acquired taste and give it a reputation for being unpopular among foreigners (and many Japanese people too). Natto is very healthy and a popular breakfast food where it is commonly mixed with a bit of dashi and mustard and eaten with cooked white [rice](e2043.html). Natto is also used as a filling in [sushi rolls](e2038.html) or as a topping for pasta.
* 

  Soy sauce (shoyu)

  Soy sauce is the most important Japanese [condiment](e2313.html) and is used to flavor all types of [Japanese dishes](e2035.html). Made of fermented, roasted soy beans, there are countless varieties and regional soy sauces that vary in flavor and color.
  Some of the typical types of soy sauce that you may encounter are regular all-purpose soy sauce, [sashimi](e2044.html) soy sauce with a lighter flavor and color so as not to overpower the subtle flavors of sashimi, and low sodium soy sauce for the more health conscious.
* 

  Miso

  Miso is fermented soybean paste, used as a soup base and [condiment](e2313.html) in many [dishes](e2035.html). Like soy sauce, miso comes in a wide variety of colors (from light to dark) and flavors (from salty to sweet) and with regional differences. Miso is used in many popular dishes such as [miso soup](e2045_tofu.html#miso_soup) and miso [ramen](e2042.html).
* 

  [Tofu](e2045_tofu.html)

  [Tofu](e2045_tofu.html) is soybean curd pressed into blocks in a process much like making cheese. It is a staple ingredient of Japanese cuisine and the basis of a large variety of dishes. Tofu is used fresh or boiled or fried in soups and stews such as [miso soup](e2045_tofu.html#miso_soup) or hot pot dishes.
* 

  Soy milk (tonyu)

  Soy milk is a white, milky liquid made of ground soybeans and water. Similar to cow's milk, it can be drunk plain or flavored and may be used as an ingredient in other dishes. Soy milk is used to made [tofu](e2045_tofu.html).
* 

  Yuba

  Yuba (or tofu skin) is the skin that forms when boiling soy milk. It is often served fresh (nama-yuba), but can also be dried into sheets and used in other types of dishes.
* 

  Okara

  Okara is a pulpy byproduct that is filtered out of soy milk. On its own it is relatively flavorless, but it is often cooked with carrots, burdock root, shiitake mushrooms and other [vegetables](e2346.html) to make a side dish called unohana (as shown in the picture to the left).
* 

  Soybean flour (kinako)

  Soybean flour is a light brown powder made of ground up roasted soybeans. It is used in various ways in Japanese cooking, especially as a coating for [Japanese sweets](e2312.html).
* 

  Bean sprouts (moyashi)

  Bean sprouts are a common ingredient in Japanese cooking. They are usually served cooked, stir fried or as a topping for [ramen](e2042.html). Bean sprouts are made from a variety of beans. While those made of mung beans are most commonly used today, bean sprouts made of soybeans are also popular.