---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2062.html
title: Public Holidays and Annual Events in Japan
description: A list of Japanese national holidays and other annual events.
keywords: japan, holiday, national, japanese, holidays, public
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 853
char_count: 6220
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:37:50
---

The following are Japanese national holidays and some of the most important other annual nationwide events. In addition, there are countless [local annual festivals](e2063.html). [Shops](e2450.html), [restaurants](e2036.html) and [tourist attractions](e623a.html) in Japan are generally open on national holidays, except on [New Year](e2276.html).

If a national holiday falls on a Sunday, the following Monday is also turned into a holiday. Likewise, a day sandwiched between two national holidays is turned into a holiday.

Please consult our [event calendar](/event/) for exact dates.

* January 1 (national holiday)
    
  **New Year (shogatsu):**
    
  This is the most important holiday in Japan. While only January 1 is designated as a national holiday, many businesses remain closed through January 3. More information is available on the [New Year](e2064.html) and [Visiting during New Year](e2276.html) pages.

* Second Monday of January (national holiday)
    
  **Coming of Age (seijin no hi):**
    
  The coming of age of young adults is celebrated on this national holiday. The age of legal adulthood in Japan was lowered from 20 to 18 in 2022.

* February 3
    
  **Beginning of spring (setsubun):**
    
  Setsubun is not a national holiday, but celebrated at shrines and temples nationwide. More information is available on the [Setsubun](e2285.html) page.

* February 11 (national holiday)
    
  **National Foundation Day (kenkoku kinenbi):**
    
  According to the earliest Japanese [history](e641.html) records, on this day in the year 660 BC the first Japanese [emperor](e2135.html) was crowned.

* February 14
    
  **Valentine's Day:**
    
  In Japan, women give chocolates to men on Valentine's Day. It is not a national holiday. More information is available on the [Valentine's Day](/topic/0003.html) page.

* February 23 (national holiday)
    
  **Emperor's Birthday (tenno no tanjobi):**
    
  The birthday of the current [emperor](e2135.html) is always a national holiday. If the emperor changes, the national holiday changes to the birthday date of the new emperor.

* March 3
    
  **Doll's Festival (hina matsuri):**
    
  On this day, families with girls wish their daughters a successful and happy life. [Dolls](e2104.html) are displayed in the house together with peach blossoms.

* March 14
    
  **White Day:**
    
  The opposite of Valentine's Day: Men give cakes or chocolates to women. It is not a national holiday. More information is available on the [White Day](/topic/0003.html) page.

* Around March 20 (national holiday)
    
  **Spring Equinox Day (shunbun no hi):**
    
  Graves are visited during the week (ohigan) of the Equinox Day.

* April 29 (national holiday)
    
  **Showa Day (Showa no hi):**
    
  The birthday of former Emperor Showa. Before 2007, April 29 was known as Greenery Day (now celebrated on May 4). Showa Day is part of the [Golden Week](e2282.html).

* May 3 (national holiday)
    
  **Constitution Day (kenpo kinenbi):**
    
  A national holiday remembering the new constitution, which was put into effect after the [war](e2129.html). More information is available on the [Golden Week](e2282.html) page.

* May 4 (national holiday)
    
  **Greenery Day (midori no hi):**
    
  Until 2006, Greenery Day was celebrated on April 29, the former Emperor Showa's birthday, due to the emperor's love for plants and nature. It is now celebrated on May 4 and is part of the [Golden Week](e2282.html).

* May 5 (national holiday)
    
  **Children's Day (kodomo no hi):**
    
  Also called boy's festival. More information is available on the [Golden Week](e2282.html) page.

* July/August 7
    
  **Star Festival (tanabata):**
    
  Tanabata is a festival rather than a national holiday. More information is available on the [Tanabata](e2283.html) page.

* Third Monday of July (national holiday)
    
  **Ocean Day (umi no hi):**
    
  A recently introduced national holiday to celebrate the ocean. The day marks the return of Emperor Meiji from a boat trip to [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html) in 1876.

* August 11 (national holiday)
    
  **Mountain Day (yama no hi):**
    
  Newly introduced in 2016, this national holiday celebrates mountains.

* July/August 13-15
    
  **Obon:**
    
  Obon is a Buddhist event to commemorate deceased ancestors. More information is available on the [Obon](e2286.html) page.

* Third Monday of September (national holiday)
    
  **Respect for the Aged Day (keiro no hi):**
    
  Respect for the elderly and longevity are celebrated on this national holiday.

* Around September 23 (national holiday)
    
  **Autumn Equinox Day (shubun no hi):**
    
  Graves are visited during the week (ohigan) of the Equinox Day.

* Second Monday of October (national holiday)
    
  **Health and Sports Day (taiiku no hi):**
    
  On that day in 1964, the [Olympic games](e2260.html) of [Tokyo](e2164.html) were opened.

* November 3 (national holiday)
    
  **Culture Day (bunka no hi):**
    
  A day for promotion of culture and the love of freedom and peace. On culture day, [schools](e2150.html) and the [government](e2136.html) award selected persons for their special, cultural achievements. The day was originally a public holiday because it was [Emperor Meiji](e2130.html)'s birthday. Later in 1946, the [post-war](e2124.html) constitution was promulgated on the this date which led to the establishment of Culture Day.

* November 15
    
  **Seven-Five-Three (shichigosan):**
    
  Girls of age three and seven and boys of age three and five are celebrated on Shichigosan around November 15, and it is prayed for their good health and growth.

* November 23 (national holiday)
    
  **Labor Thanksgiving Day (kinro kansha no hi):**
    
  A national holiday for honoring labour.

* December 24-25
    
  **Christmas:**
    
  Christmas is not a national holiday, but shopping malls are heavily decorated in the weeks leading up to Christmas, and many people follow some local Christmas traditions, such as eating chicken and a Christmas cake or having a dinner with one's partner.

* December 31
    
  **New Year's Eve (omisoka):**
    
  December 31 is not a national holiday. More information is available on the [New Year](e2064.html) page.