---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2310.html
title: Japanese Seaweed
description: Basic introduction to Japanese seaweed.
keywords: japan, seaweed, konbu, nori, wakame, kombu
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 1026
char_count: 7383
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:54:57
---

Seaweeds (海藻, kaisō) have been an important part of the [Japanese diet](e620.html) for many centuries. Various types of seaweed are used as soup stock, seasonings and other forms in daily cooking. The following are some the seaweed types most commonly encountered by tourists:

* 

  Kombu

  Kombu (or konbu) is a large type of seaweed that is very commonly used as a soup stock. Pieces of kombu are also enjoyed in some [nabe (hot pot) dishes](e2315.html).
* 

  Wakame

  Wakame is often used in soups such as the [miso soup](e2045.html) or in salads. It is usually sold in dried form and soaked in water before use. The picture on the left shows wakame in dried and soaked form.
* 

  Nori

  Nori are thin, dried seaweed sheets. Nori sheets are used in many [sushi dishes](e2038.html), for [rice balls](e2043.html) and as a topping or condiment for various noodle and other [dishes](e2035.html). Nori is widely available and can be found at [supermarkets](e2073.html), [convenience stores](e2071.html) and seaweed specialty stores.
* 

  Hijiki

  Hijiki is a dark, short seaweed that is used in simmered dishes and salads. It is most commonly prepared as hijiki no nimono, in which hijiki and thin strips of carrots and [aburaage](e2045_tofu.html) (deep fried tofu) are simmered in [soy sauce](e2313.html#shoyu), mirin and dashi soup stock. The picture on the left shows hijiki in its dried and soaked forms.
* 

  Mozuku

  Mozuku is a brown seaweed from [Okinawa](/list/e1247.html) that is made up of very thin leaf strands and has a slightly slimy texture. Mozuku is most commonly served as a small side dish in [vinegar](e2313.html#su) and is also popular outside of Okinawa.
* 

  Umibudo

  Umibudo (lit. "sea grapes") is a seaweed that indeed resembles grapes on a miniature scale. Each little umibudo ball has a soft skin that releases a salty liquid when bitten. Umibudo is usually served with little preparation, with only a bit of [vinegar](e2313.html#su) or [soy sauce](e2313.html#shoyu). This [Okinawa specialty](e7128.html) is not easily found outside of [Okinawa](/list/e1247.html).