---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2072.html
title: Japanese Department Stores
description: A tourist's guide to Japanese department stores.
keywords: japan, department, departmental, store, stores
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 869
char_count: 6254
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:46:59
---

Mitsukoshi Nihonbashi

Department stores (デパート, depāto) operate typically in buildings five to ten stories high. They provide for a one-stop [shopping](e2450.html) experience with a wide range of products available, mostly brands and high quality goods. Accordingly, prices tend to be on the higher side.

The first department stores in Japan were founded during the early 1900s. Their predecessors were [kimono](e2101.html) stores, which supplied various types of luxurious goods during the [Edo](e2128.html) and [Meiji](e2130.html) periods. Japanese department stores were largely successful for decades. However, they have been undergoing difficult times in recent years due to the economic slowdown since the 1990s, as well as increased competition from mass consumer retailers and online shops.

Interior of the Mitsukoshi Nihonbashi

### Concept

At a department store, shopping is divided into levels. The [food](e620.html) department is almost always in the basement and can be an attraction by itself due to the wide variety of Japanese delicacies, sweets, desserts and other consumables on display. At ground level is usually the cosmetics department, where many famous international and local brands of cosmetics are represented.

Moving up, the first few levels are often women's fashion, while men's fashion and the sports department tend to be on the next couple of levels. Located above are usually one or two levels dedicated to interior and lifestyle goods, stationery and toys. These days, it is not uncommon for department stores to allocate shop space to private tenants as part of their efforts to reinvent themselves.

The top level is usually the restaurant floor, where multiple [restaurants](e2036.html) serving different types of Japanese and international cuisine can be found at a reasonable price. Most establishments showcase their menu items as [food replicas](e5933.html) in their window displays. Some department stores also have rooftop gardens open to customers, that may be used as [beer](e2037_beer.html) gardens in summer.

Food department

### Shopping experience

Japanese department stores are famous for their unparalleled customer service. The constant greeting by the staff is a distinguishable feature. If you visit a big department store just before it opens, you would usually see its employees lined up neatly, waiting to welcome customers. The moment the second hand of the clock hits the opening time, the doors will be punctually opened, and customers can make a grand entrance being flanked by bowing and greeting staff.

Another element is the impeccable presentation of the goods, especially if they are bought as [gifts](e2004.html). Products are usually already nicely packaged by the manufacturer in the first place. As gifts, they would be given an additional layer of packaging or some other decoration such as ribbons. They would then be placed in carriers bearing the name of the department store to demonstrates that the gifts have been obtained from a reputable source.

Takashimaya Shinjuku, one of Japan's largest department stores

Opening hours are typically from ten in the morning to eight in the evening. The [restaurants](e2036.html) tend to open later at about eleven but also close later at night. Department stores are open on Saturdays, Sundays and [national holidays](e2062.html) as these are the most popular shopping days. Some stores are instead closed on one weekday per week or month. Many stores close on [January 1](e2276.html).

At major department stores, foreign tourists are often able to get a [refund on the consumption tax](e2450_how.html) for purchases of over 5000 yen. Payment should first be made as usual, after which shoppers bring the receipts, purchased goods and their passport to a dedicated duty free counter in the store to receive their refund.

A Daimaru department store faces a Hanshin department store in front of Osaka Station

### Where to find them

Every [major city](/list/e1003.html) has one or more department stores. The stores are usually located in the city center or around large [train](e2016.html) stations, and many of them actually belong to the same parent company as the [railway companies](e2019.html). Major department store chains that can be found across Japan include Isetan-Mitsukoshi, Takashimaya and Daimaru-Matsuzakaya. In addition, there are many chains that operate mainly within certain regions or cities.

* 

  [Tokyo](/e/e3053.html)

  The capital is a shopper's paradise with many districts having multiple department stores: [Ginza](e3005.html) is Tokyo's, and perhaps Japan's, most famous upmarket shopping district; [Shibuya](e3007.html) is a center for youth fashion and culture; [Shinjuku](e3011.html) has a busy shopping area around the world's busiest railway station; and [Ikebukuro](e3038.html) has several large department stores around its station. Local department store chains include Seibu, Tobu, Tokyu and Keio.
* 

  [Osaka](/e/e4013.html)

  [Osaka](e2157.html) is the economic center of western Japan. Many department stores can be found mostly around its two main city centers of [Umeda](e4009.html) and [Namba](e4001.html). Besides the nationwide chains, shoppers in Osaka will also find local chains such as Kintetsu, Hankyu and Hanshin. Japan's largest department store is located in [Abeno Harukas](e4026.html), the country's tallest skyscraper.
* 

  [Kyoto](/e/e3958.html)

  Shijo-dori Street is the main shopping district in [Kyoto](e2158.html), featuring Takashimaya and Daimaru department stores. A large Isetan is located inside [Kyoto Station](e3922.html).