---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2083.html
title: Soccer in Japan
description: A tourist's guide to soccer in Japan and how to watch a J-League match.
keywords: soccer, japan, j-league, match, national, team
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 465
char_count: 3164
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:38:07
---

Soccer is one of the most popular sports in Japan. People of all ages and both genders play soccer and futsal. The Japanese national soccer teams are currently among the highest ranked Asian teams in the world. The men's national team is nicknamed the "[Samurai](e2127.html) Blue" after their jersey's color, and the women's national team is known as "Nadeshiko Japan" after a flower that is related to the image of the ideal Japanese woman. The women's team won the 2011 World Cup as the first Asian team ever.

Competitive soccer in Japan is organized into a pyramidal system similar to that in many European leagues. At the top of the hierarchy is the professional level called the **J.League**. Next is the semi-professional level called the Japan Football League, followed by regional and then by prefectural leagues.

The J.League was started in 1993 and it is currently comprised of three divisions - J. League Division 1 (J1), J. League Division 2 (J2) and J. League Division 3 (J3). Being a relatively young league, the number of teams in the J.League has been changing since its inception, with each division having around one to two dozen teams. At the end of each season, the bottom teams get relegated, while the top teams get promoted.

Several thousand teams from the professional to the high school level, furthermore, participate in an annual knockout tournament, **The Emperor's Cup**. The final game of the cup is held every year on January 1.

### How to watch a J.League game

From 2026, the J.League season starts in August and ends in May or early June of the following year, with a winter break from mid December to mid February (until 2025, the season ended in December; so, there won't be any games until August). J1 matches are typically held on Saturday afternoons. To view match schedules and purchase tickets, use the [official J.League website](#section_links). Tickets cost typically 2000-8000 yen and can also be obtained over the counter on the day or purchased at the clubs' official stores or at [convenience stores](e2071.html).

J.League matches can also be watched on television; although they are generally aired only on paid TV channels or subscription streaming services.