---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2358_014.html
title: Rail Pass\: Fuji Hakone Pass
description: About Odakyu Fuji Hakone Pass, a free pass for the Mount Fuji region.
keywords: Odakyu, Fuji, Hakone, Pass
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 1803
char_count: 12234
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:44:02
---

The **Fuji Hakone Pass** is a [discount pass](e2357.html) for exclusive use by non-Japanese passport holders. It provides unlimited use of designated buses, trains, boats, cablecars and ropeways in the [Hakone](e5200.html) and the [Fuji Five Lake](e6900.html) areas, a round trip from [Tokyo](e2164.html) by Odakyu Railway, and discounted admission to selected tourist attractions on three consecutive days.

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| ****Fuji Hakone Pass**** | |
| Adults |

 11,100 yen || Children | 3,600 yen |

The map below shows the [train](e5202.html), cablecar, [ropeway](e5223.html), boat and major bus lines to be used with the Fuji Hakone Pass:

### Validity

#### Round trip from Tokyo

1. One round trip by Odakyu Railway between Tokyo's [Shinjuku Station](e3011.html) and Odawara Station.
2. You may use [local](e2016.html#category) or [express](e2016.html#category) trains; however, if you use a "Romance Car" [limited express](e2016.html#category) train between Shinjuku and Hakone, a seat reservation is required and costs an additional 1200 yen one way (or 1150 yen if using an e-ticket). E-tickets can be purchased on the [e-Romancecar website](https://www.web-odakyu.com/e-romancecar/?language=en), while paper tickets are available at ticket machines and ticket offices of Odakyu stations.

#### Free area

1. Unlimited use of the [Hakone Tozan Railway](e5202.html) (between Odawara and Gora), the cablecar and ropeway from Gora to [Lake Ashinoko](e5201.html), sightseeing ships on Lake Ashinoko and many buses in the [Hakone](e5200.html) area, including Hakone Tozan buses and the Odakyu bus between Togendai and Gotemba.
2. Unlimited use of Fujikyu buses [between Gotemba and the Fuji Five Lake region](/bus/gotemba.html) and between Gotemba, [Gotemba 5th Station](e6929.html), [Yeti](e6932.html) and Grinpa.
3. Unlimited use of the Fujikyuko Railway Line between Kawaguchiko Station and Otsuki Station and of regular Fujikyu buses in the Fuji Five Lake region, including the Omni buses around [Lake Kawaguchiko](e6906.html) and [Lake Saiko](e6907.html) (but not including the bus to the [5th Station](e6922.html)).

#### Other conditions

1. Discounted admission to selected attractions in the [Hakone](e5200.html) and [Fuji Five Lake](e6900.html) areas.
2. The Fuji Hakone Pass is valid on three consecutive days.
3. The pass is available only to non-Japanese passport holders.

### Points of sale

Odakyu Sightseeing Service Centers at [Shinjuku Station](e3011.html) in central [Tokyo](e2164.html) and Odawara Station, and at Fujikyu Otsuki and Kawaguchiko stations.

The pass can be purchased also through third-party vendors, such as [Japan Experience](https://affiliate.japan-experience.com/click?o=4&a=31&link_id=866), but will require an exchange of vouchers in Japan. It provides no advantages over purchasing directly through Odakyu, unless you can earn points through a particular vendor or the like.

### Assessment

This pass can pay off if you visit both [Hakone](e5200.html) and the [Fuji Five Lakes](e6900.html) and make use of the buses around the Fuji Five Lakes. If you do not use buses in the Fuji Five Lake region, a [Hakone Free Pass](e2358_008.html) combined with regular tickets can come cheaper.