---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2160.html
title: Hiroshima Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for the city of Hiroshima, Japan.
keywords: hiroshima, japan, travel, city, guide, sightseeing, tourist, tourism, information
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 1770
char_count: 12596
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:40:06
---

Hiroshima (広島) is the principal city of the [Chugoku Region](/list/e1106.html) and home to over a million inhabitants.

When the first atomic bomb was dropped over Hiroshima on August 6, 1945, the city became known worldwide for this unenviable distinction. The destructive power of the bomb was tremendous and obliterated nearly everything within a two kilometer radius.

After the war, great efforts were taken to rebuild the city. Destroyed monuments of Hiroshima's historical heritage, like [Hiroshima Castle](e3402.html) and [Shukkeien Garden](e3403.html), were reconstructed. In the center of the city a large park was built and given a name that would reflect the aspirations of the re-born city: [Peace Memorial Park](e3400.html).

* [](/e/e3400.html)

  1

  Museum

  [Peace Park•••](/e/e3400.html)

  Remembering the drop of the atomic bomb.

  4.5

  

  3,731
* [](/e/e3405.html)

  2

  Museum

  [Mazda Museum•](/e/e3405.html)

  Museum and factory tours of the car maker.

  4.0

  

  315
* [](/e/e3403.html)

  3

  Garden

  [Shukkeien Garden](/e/e3403.html)

  Japanese landscape garden.

  3.9

  

  797
* [](/e/e3406.html)

  4

  Neighborhood

  [Hiroshima Downtown](/e/e3406.html)

  About Hiroshima's downtown area.

  3.5

  

  2,211
* [](/e/e3402.html)

  5

  Castle

  [Hiroshima Castle](/e/e3402.html)

  Reconstruction of the former castle.

  3.4

  

  1,789

Side Trips from Hiroshima

* [](/e/e3401.html)

  1

  [Miyajima•••](/e/e3401.html)

  Island known for its shrine and large torii gate.

  4.7

  

  3,147
* [](/e/e3475.html)

  2

  [Onomichi•](/e/e3475.html)

  Port town with many slopes and temples.

  3.7

  

  524
* [](/e/e6175.html)

  3

  [Iwakuni•](/e/e6175.html)

  Site of the picturesque Kintai-kyo Bridge.

  3.6

  

  583
* [](/e/e3430.html)

  4

  [Fukuyama](/e/e3430.html)

  Second largest city in Hiroshima Prefecture.

  3.1

  

  147

[

Hiroshima Food Guide](/e/e3408.html)
[

Hiroshima Cherry Blossom Spots](/e/e3407.html)

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Hiroshima](/e/e2160.html)

[Getting to and around Hiroshima](/e/e3404.html)
[See access info](/e/e3404.html)

[

1/2 Day

Classic Hiroshima

Hiroshima Half Day Walk

* Visit the **peace park**
* See **Hiroshima Castle**
* Stroll through a **traditional garden**

View itinerary](e3409_hiroshima_half.html)