---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2357_006.html
title: Kintetsu Rail Pass
description: Explaining the Kintetsu Rail Pass, a rail pass for foreigners, providing unlimited use of Kintetsu train on five consecutive days.
keywords: Kintetsu, Rail, Pass
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 708
char_count: 5320
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:45:49
---

The **Kintetsu Rail Pass** is a [rail pass](e2357.html) for exclusive use by foreign tourists. It provides unlimited use of trains (except [limited express](e2016.html#category) trains) by Kintetsu Railway, Japan's largest non-JR [railway](e2019.html) network. Some versions of the pass also cover designated buses around [Nara Prefecture](/list/e1228.html) and the [Shima Peninsula](e4310.html).

|  |
| --- |
| [**Purchase the Kintetsu Rail Pass**](https://www.klook.com/activity/5540-kintetsu-rail-pass-osaka/?aid=12675) |

|  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **Kintetsu Rail Pass** | | |
|  | Digital Pass | Paper Ticket |
| 5-Day Pass | 4,900 yen | 5,000 yen |
| 5-Day Pass Plus | 6,700 yen | 6,900 yen |
| 2-Day Pass | 3,700 yen | |
| 1-Day Pass | 1,900 yen | |
| Reduced rates apply to children aged 6-11 (50% off) for the Kintetsu Rail Pass. | | |

The maps below show the coverage areas for each pass type:

### Validity

1. Unlimited use of local ([futsu](e2016.html#category)), rapid ([kaisoku](e2016.html#category)) and express ([kyuko](e2016.html#category)) trains, as well as cablecars as shown on the maps above.
2. The pass is not valid on limited express ([tokkyu](e2016.html#category)) trains. Pass holders using limited express trains will have to pay the limited express fee separately.
3. Some of the passes are also valid on designated Nara Kotsu buses in the [Nara](e2165.html) and [Asuka](e4175.html) areas and on designated Mie Kotsu and Toba City buses around [Mie Prefecture](/list/e1225.html).
4. The pass provides discounts for selected tourist attractions.
5. The passes are valid based on calendar days (midnight to midnight) as opposed to 24-hour periods. The 2-day and 5-day passes are valid on consecutive calendar days.
6. Only foreigners who stay in Japan as [temporary visitors](e2221.html) are eligible to use the passes.

### Points of sale

The Kintetsu Rail Pass is available as a digital ticket to be used with a QR code at ticket gates. It can be purchased through various sale channels, such as [Klook](https://www.klook.com/activity/5540-kintetsu-rail-pass-osaka/?aid=12675).

Alternatively the pass can be purchased as a traditional paper ticket at selected major stations around [Osaka](e2157.html), [Kyoto](e2158.html) and [Nagoya](e2155.html), but note that not all pass versions are available at all sales locations and some pass versions are a little bit more expensive than their digital alternatives if purchased as paper tickets.

|  |
| --- |
| [**Purchase the Kintetsu Rail Pass**](https://www.klook.com/activity/5540-kintetsu-rail-pass-osaka/?aid=12675) |

### Assessment

Over the years, the Kintetsu Rail Pass underwent multiple price increases - most recently in December 2024 - which were much greater than the price increases of regular tickets. As a result, the pass has become increasingly more difficult to pay off.

The 5-day passes can still pay off for those making long-distance journeys across the Kintetsu railway network, for example a round trip between [Osaka](e2157.html) or [Kyoto](e2158.html) and the [Shima Peninsula](e4310.html) or [Nagoya](e2155.html), but note that pass holders will have to pay additionally the limited express fees when using the fast and comfortable, direct [limited express](e2016.html#category) trains along these routes.

The 1-Day Pass costs more than regular tickets for a round trip between [Osaka](e2157.html) (or [Kyoto](e2158.html)) and [Nara](e2165.html), so it will pay off only if you also use buses around Nara. Likewise, the 2-Day Pass will pay off only if you make two day trips from Osaka (or Kyoto) beyond just Nara, for example to more distant destinations, such as [Muroji Temple](e4187.html) or [Yoshino](e4150.html).

Read our page about [passes for the Kansai Region](e2357_kansai.html) for more information.