---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2122.html
title: Nature in Japan
description: Traveler's guide to nature-related attractions in Japan.
keywords: japan, nature, natural, feature, spot, volcano, waterfall, beach, cave, marshland, outdoors, river, lake, attraction
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 1796
char_count: 12615
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:42:57
---

Many visitors to Japan limit their sightseeing activities to the country's heavily urbanized areas between [Tokyo](e2164.html), [Kyoto](e2158.html) and [Hiroshima](e2160.html). As a result, many return home with a hardened misconception that Japan is one large, densely populated megacity. In fact, however, over two thirds of Japan are covered by forested mountains and hills, compared to less than ten percent residential and industrial land.

The Japanese archipelago stretches nearly 3000 kilometers from north to south, allowing visitors to experience a wide range of natural sights from the [drift ice](e6860.html) in the seas off [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html) to the mangrove jungles in [Okinawa](/list/e1247.html). In between, there are majestic [volcanoes](e2327.html), breathtaking coastlines and vast forests inhabited by monkeys, bears, deer, cranes and other wildlife. Places of particular natural beauty are protected as [national parks](e2325.html) and [World Heritage Sites](e2251.html).

Mangroves on Iriomote

The following is a short selection of some of the best natural sites in Japan:

### Mountains and volcanoes

Japan has a mountainous interior which is mostly made up of [volcanoes](e2327.html). These heights provide plenty of [hiking](e2427.html) opportunities and scenic viewpoints from which to see the surrounding areas.

* 

  [Yamanashi](/list/e1213.html) and [Shizuoka](/list/e1218.html) prefectures

  [Mount Fuji•••](/e/e2172.html)

  [Mount Fuji](e2172.html) is a beautifully symmetrical [volcano](e2327.html), and the symbol and highest mountain of Japan. [Climbing Mount Fuji](e6901.html) is popular during summer with people ascending via four different trails. The [Fuji Five Lakes](e6900.html) region at the northern foot of Mount Fuji and [Hakone](e5200.html) are popular resort destinations with [views of the mountain](e6933.html).
* 

  [Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)

  [Takaosan•](e3029.html)

  [Mount Takao](e3029.html) is one of the closest natural recreation areas to central [Tokyo](e2164.html) offering beautiful scenery, an interesting [temple](e2058.html) and attractive [hiking](e2427.html) opportunities. Visitors can choose to hike all the way up to the summit or take the cablecar or chair lift halfway up.
* 

  [Aso](/e/e4550.html)

  [Mount Aso•](e4552.html)

  [Mount Aso](e4552.html) lies in the center of [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html) and is part of the [Aso-Kuju National Park](e4570.html). Its caldera is one of the largest in the world with a diameter of about 25 kilometers and a circumference of over 100 kilometers. Nakadake Crater at the center of the caldera is easily visited but not always accessible due to volcanic activities.

### Capes, coasts and beaches

Japan's coastline is one of the world's longest, and many sections of it are quite impressive. Not only are there rugged cliffs, geological formations and [hiking trails](e2427.html), but there are also plenty of [beaches](e2461.html) offering swimming and [snorkeling](e2424_snorkeling.html) opportunities.

* 

  [Sanriku Coast](/e/e5025.html)

  [Kitayamazaki Coast•](e5034.html)

  The [Kitayamazaki Coast](e5034.html) is an eight kilometer long stretch of coastline in northern [Iwate Prefecture](/list/e1204.html) featuring sheer, 150-200 meter high cliffs. The coast is best seen from the Kitayamazaki Observatory, a park at the northern end of the coastline.
* 

  [Izu Peninsula](/e/e6310.html)

  [Jogasaki Coast](e6308.html)

  The [Jogasaki Coast](e6308.html) is a beautiful section of coastline along the [Izu Peninsula](e6310.html)'s eastern shore. There is an attractive hiking trail that follows the coast for almost ten kilometers, offering beautiful views of the jagged cliffs and stone formations along the edge.
* 

  [Shimokita Peninsula](/e/e3725.html)

  [Cape Oma](e3729.html)

  [Cape Oma](e3729.html) is the northernmost point of the [Shimokita Peninsula](e3725.html) and of the entire Honshu Island, Japan's main island. The cape looks across over the Tsugaru Kaikyo Strait to southern [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html) where the city of Hakodate is visible on clear days. The area is most famous for the large tuna caught in its waters.

### Gorges

Many gorges with beautiful views of cliffs, forests and waterfalls can be found in Japan. Many of the gorges can be [hiked](e2427.html), while others can be enjoyed from [boat tours or sightseeing trains](e2466.html).

* 

  [Takachiho](/e/e8050.html)

  [Takachiho Gorge•](e8052.html)

  The [Takachiho Gorge](e8052.html) in [Miyazaki Prefecture](/list/e1245.html) is a narrow gorge lined with sheer cliffs and a 17 meter high waterfall along the way. Visitors can rent row boats to paddle down the river through the gorge or walk along paved paths that run along its edges.
* 

  [Toyama Prefecture](/list/e1219.html)

  [Kurobe Gorge•](e7575.html)

  The [Kurobe Gorge](e7575.html) is a beautiful, forested ravine in the rugged mountains of the [Northern Japanese Alps](e6043.html). It is one of the deepest gorges in Japan with steep, nearly vertical cliffs, untouched virgin forests and outdoor [hot springs](e2292.html). The main attraction is the sightseeing train that operates twenty kilometers into the gorge.
* 

  [Near Hiraizumi](/e/e5000.html)

  [Geibikei Gorge](e5006.html)

  The [Geibikei Gorge](e5006.html) is a spectacular natural site outside [Hiraizumi](e5000.html) in the interior of [Iwate Prefecture](/list/e1204.html). The best way to view the tall cliffs and rock formations in the gorge is to take a 90-minute ride on a flat-bottomed boat that leads about one kilometer in.

### Caves

Large limestone caves can be found across Japan and offer natural formations like limestone pools, underground waterfalls and streams that were formed millions of years ago. Visitors can explore a portion of these caves via walking courses and marvel at their natural beauty.

* 

  [Yamaguchi Prefecture](/list/e1239.html)

  [Akiyoshido•](e6130.html)

  [Akiyoshido Cave](e6130.html) in [Yamaguchi Prefecture](/list/e1239.html) is one of Japan's largest and longest limestone caves. One kilometer of the nine kilometer long cave is open to the public, and various natural formations like limestone pools, underground waterfalls and streams, can be seen.
* 

  [Fukushima Prefecture](/list/e1208.html)

  [Abukumado•](e7793.html)

  [Abukumado Cave](e7793.html) is a 3000 meter limestone cave network in eastern [Fukushima Prefecture](/list/e1208.html) that was formed over 80 million years ago. About 600 meters of the caverns are opened to the public, and it takes about an hour to explore the main walking course.
* 

  [Sanriku Coast](/e/e5025.html)

  [Ryusendo Cave](e5028.html)

  Regarded as one of Japan's three great limestone caves, [Ryusendo](e5028.html) extends nearly 5000 meters into the mountains of Iwaizumi Town in [Iwate Prefecture](/list/e1204.html). About 700 meters of the cave are open to the public, and visitors can walk along the underground river and view three of the cave's four underground lakes.

### Marshlands

Marshlands are popular [hiking destinations](e2427.html) found both up in the mountains and in lower elevations. Many marshlands are particularly beautiful during the [autumn color](e2014.html) season.

* 

  [Gunma Prefecture](/list/e1209.html)

  [Oze National Park•](e7440.html)

  [Oze National Park](e7440.html) is an excellent [hiking](e2427.html) destination that is popular during the skunk cabbages blooming season in late spring and early summer and during the [fall colors](e2014.html) if autumn. There are numerous trailheads to access the well maintained trails that lead around the marshlands and park.
* 

  [Nikko](/e/e3800.html)

  [Senjogahara Marsh•](e3811.html)

  The [Senjogahara Marshland](e3811.html) covers the plateau between [Lake Chuzenji](e3806.html) and [Yumoto Onsen](e3807.html). It offers some of the best hiking in Nikko National Park and is particularly beautiful during the [autumn leaf](e2014.html) season in October.
* 

  [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html)

  [Kushiro Marshlands](e6792.html)

  The [Kushiro Marshland](e6792.html) in eastern [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html) is a [national park](e2325.html) supporting the only known population of endangered Japanese cranes in the country. The park offers bird watching, nature viewing and walking trails.

### Waterfalls

There are hundreds of waterfalls across Japan, and some of them, like the [Nachi Waterfall](e4955.html), have been religious sites with long histories. Some waterfalls can only be accessed by [hiking](e2427.html) along nature trails, while others can be conveniently viewed from observation decks.

* 

  [Kumano](/e/e4950.html)

  [Nachi Waterfall••](e4955.html)

  At 133 meters tall, [Nachi Waterfall](e4955.html) (Nachi no Taki) is the tallest single-tiered waterfall in Japan and is ranked as one of Japan's three most beautiful falls. Nachi no Taki was the original religious site in the [Kumano Region](e4950.html) and was venerated by the earliest Japanese people.
* 

  [Okinawa Honto](/e/e7101.html)

  [Hiji Waterfall•](e7120.html)

  [Hiji Waterfall](e7120.html) is a 26 meter tall waterfall located in the northern [Yambaru area](e7131.html) of [Okinawa Honto](e7101.html). The waterfall is at the end of a nature trail through the forest and is a good spot for a rest before making the return trip back.
* 

  [Nikko](/e/e3800.html)

  [Kegon Waterfall](e3812.html)

  The almost 100 meter tall [Kegon Waterfall](e3812.html) is the most famous of [Nikko](e3800.html)'s many beautiful waterfalls, and ranked as one of Japan's three most beautiful falls. The waterfall is also a popular [autumn color](e2014.html) spot around mid to late October.

### Rivers

There are many rivers in Japan, and some of them can be explored by river cruises. Other rivers are lined by [hiking trails](e2427.html) allowing visitors to enjoy the scenery at their own pace.

* 

  [Yaeyama Islands](/e/e7200.html)

  [Iriomote Island•••](e7225.html)

  Most of [Iriomote Island](e7225.html)'s interior is covered in dense jungle accessible by [rivers](e7225.html) that head inland from the sea. Kayak tours are offered on several of the rivers, while jungle boat cruises are organized on the island's two longest rivers.
* 

  [Towada](/e/e3776.html)

  [Oirase Stream•](e3775.html)

  The [Oirase Stream](e3775.html) is a picturesque mountain stream in [Aomori Prefecture](/list/e1202.html) that is one of Japan's most famous and popular [autumn colors](e2014.html) destinations. Visitors can choose to hike, drive or take a bus to enjoy the views along the stream.
* 

  [Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)

  [Hozugawa Cruise](e3966.html)

  The [Hozugawa River](e3966.html) allows visitors to see the natural scenery of the largely undeveloped ravine from Kameoka to [Arashiyama](e3912.html) by joining a sightseeing cruise on traditional, flat-bottomed boats piloted by boatmen using oars and bamboo poles. The cruise is popularly combined with a ride on the [Sagano Scenic Railway](e3965.html).

### Lakes

There are a variety of lakes in Japan including caldera lakes, subterranean lakes and lagoons. Often surrounded by beautiful scenery, many lakes are popular [hiking](e2427.html) destinations, and some of them also offer sightseeing cruises.

* 

  [Towada](/e/e3776.html)

  [Lake Towada•](e3778.html)

  [Lake Towada](e3778.html) is the largest caldera lake on Honshu, Japan's main island, and is characterized by its two peninsulas. The best way to see the lake is by [sightseeing cruises](e3778.html) which offer close up views of the peninsulas, while the shores of the lake and the nearby [Oirase Stream](e3775.html) offer beautiful [autumn colors](e2014.html) around late October.
* 

  [Akan National Park](/e/e6800.html)

  [Lake Mashu•](e6802.html)

  [Lake Mashu](e6802.html) is a caldera lake in the [Akan National Park](e6800.html). It is widely considered to be Japan's most beautiful lake, and also vies for the position of being the clearest lake in the world. Visitors are not allowed to go down to the water, but can view it from two observation decks stationed along the rim of the caldera.
* 

  [Shiretoko Peninsula](/e/e6850.html)

  [Shiretoko Five Lakes•](e6853.html)

  The [Shiretoko Five Lakes](e6853.html) are a set of five small lakes that offer beautiful views of the surrounding mountains and wilderness in [Shiretoko](e6850.html). Visitors can walk along an elevated boardwalk to enjoy views of the first lake, while nature trails lead around the others.

### Bays

Bays have been admired for their scenic beauty for centuries, and even hold the three top spots on the famed list of [Japan's three most scenic places](e2250.html).

* 

  [Yaeyama Islands](/e/e7200.html)

  [Kabira Bay•](e7201.html)

  Emerald blue Kabira Bay (Kabirawan) is considered [Ishigaki Island](e7201.html)'s most scenic view. Swimming, [snorkeling](e2424_snorkeling.html) and [diving](e2424_diving.html) in the bay are not allowed, but a touristy, 30-minute glass bottom boat ride lets you take a look at the bay's underwater world.
* 

  [Matsushima](/e/e5100.html)

  [Matsushima Bay•](e5101.html)

  [Matsushima Bay](e5101.html) is dotted by over 200 small islands covered by pine trees and has been celebrated as one of [Japan's three most scenic views](e2250.html) for hundreds of years. The best way to enjoy the bay is by joining a sightseeing cruise.
* 

  [Shima Peninsula](/e/e4310.html)

  [Ago Bay](e4307.html)

  [Ago Bay](e4307.html) at the southern tip of the [Shima Peninsula](e4310.html), is a scenic, island-dotted bay with a rugged coastline. The bay is famous for pearl cultivation, and countless oyster rafts can be seen floating on the water. There are also sightseeing boat cruises that gives visitors a closer view of the smaller islands around the bay.

### Others

Below are a few other unique natural attractions found in Japan:

* 

  [Amanohashidate](/e/e3990.html)

  [Amanohashidate Sandbar•](e3992.html)

  The [Amanohashidate Sandbar](e3992.html) is a beautiful, three kilometer long isthmus that spans Miyazu Bay in northern [Kyoto Prefecture](/list/e1226.html). The sandbar is lined with about 8000 pine trees, and the view of the sandbar from the mountains at either end of the bay has been admired for centuries as one of Japan's [three most scenic views](e2250.html).
* 

  [Tottori](/e/e8100.html)

  [Tottori Sand Dunes•](e8102.html)

  The [Tottori Sand Dunes](e8102.html) are the largest sand dunes in Japan and [Tottori](e8100.html)'s most famous tourist attraction. The sand dunes are about 16 kilometers long, up to two kilometers wide and 50 meters high. The nearby [sand museum](e8102.html) displays large sculptures made of sand.
* 

  [Naruto](/e/e7850.html)

  [Naruto Whirlpools](e7852.html)

  The [Naruto Whirlpools](e7852.html) in the Naruto Strait are created by the large volumes of water moving between the [Seto Inland Sea](e5445.html) and the Pacific Ocean between high and low tide, combined with the unique underwater geography of the narrow strait. Visitors can join sightseeing cruises to get right up next to and among the whirlpools.


[## The Basics about Overtourism in Japan

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2122.html+report+topstory+255+338+0+/news/overtourism.html)

[## Tokyo to Osaka, But Not the Usual Way

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2122.html+report+jrkintetsu+1+11+0+/ad/jr-kintetsu-pearl-route/)

[## Ultimate Guide to Limited Express Trains

Travel Guide

](/link.html?/e/e2122.html+report+topstory+299+390+0+/e/e2016_limited_express.html)

[## Four spots not to miss on the Boso Peninsula

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2122.html+report+chiba+5+15+0+/ad/boso-activities/)

[## 2025 Autumn Color Reports

Travel Report

](/link.html?/e/e2122.html+report+topstory+298+389+0+/blog/koyo25/)

[## 14 years after the tsunami

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2122.html+report+topstory+297+388+0+/blog/recovery/251028.html)

[## A visit to Legoland Resort Nagoya

Traveling with Kids

](/link.html?/e/e2122.html+report+topstory+291+381+0+/blog/traveling-with-kids/250701.html)

[## The Basics about Overtourism in Japan

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2122.html+report+topstory+255+338+0+/news/overtourism.html)

[## Tokyo to Osaka, But Not the Usual Way

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2122.html+report+jrkintetsu+1+11+0+/ad/jr-kintetsu-pearl-route/)

[## Ultimate Guide to Limited Express Trains

Travel Guide

](/link.html?/e/e2122.html+report+topstory+299+390+0+/e/e2016_limited_express.html)

[## Four spots not to miss on the Boso Peninsula

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2122.html+report+chiba+5+15+0+/ad/boso-activities/)

[## 2025 Autumn Color Reports

Travel Report

](/link.html?/e/e2122.html+report+topstory+298+389+0+/blog/koyo25/)

[## 14 years after the tsunami

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2122.html+report+topstory+297+388+0+/blog/recovery/251028.html)

[## A visit to Legoland Resort Nagoya

Traveling with Kids

](/link.html?/e/e2122.html+report+topstory+291+381+0+/blog/traveling-with-kids/250701.html)