---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2223.html
title: Cell Phones in Japan
description: About cell phones in Japan, and how to get a mobile phone for your trip to Japan.
keywords: japan, cell, telephone, telephones, phone, phones, mobile, cellular, public
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 702
char_count: 4907
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:56:02
---

The biggest Japanese mobile phone companies are NTT docomo, au by KDDI, Softbank (formerly Vodafone, and before that J-phone) and Rakuten Mobile. There are also several smaller companies which provide low-cost cell phone plans for residents and mobile [internet](e2279.html) products for tourists, but they typically use the networks of the big four companies.

|  |
| --- |
| Sponsored Cell Phone Services |

|  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| |  |  | | --- | --- | |  | [**Mobal- Japan Unlimited SIM- Available to ALL**](/link.html?/e/e2223.html+custom+mobal+1+1+0+https://www.mobal.com/japan-sim-card/xQUEsourcexEQ3146)  Get a Japanese Voice & Unlimited Data or Unlimited Data-only SIM online. No contract. No termination fee. Ideal for both tourists & residents. Free delivery or collection in Japan. | |

### Do foreign phones work in Japan?

While most mobile phone models can be used in Japan today, some older phones may not work due to different technologies. The following is needed for a handset to work in Japan:

* **For voice -** Most modern phones are compatible with Japan's cell phone networks and can be used via international roaming (check with your home provider for details) or a [SIM card](e2279.html). Alternatively, phones can use internet-based telephone services, such as WhatsApp or Zoom, when connected to a [Wi-Fi network](e2279.html).
* **For data -** Most modern phones can also receive and send data (such as e-mails and web content) via international roaming or a SIM card, but note that the cost for data transfer can easily skyrocket without an appropriate data plan. Alternatively, phones with wireless network (Wi-Fi) connectivity can take advantage of the numerous paid and free [Wi-Fi hotspots](e2279.html) found around the country.

### How to use a mobile phone in Japan?

#### SIM cards

[SIM cards](e2279.html) or eSIM plans allow travelers to use their own mobile phones in Japan. Most SIM cards available to foreign tourists are data-only and do not allow for voice calls (except when using internet-based telephone services such as WhatsApp or Zoom).

Offers by the various companies differ on connection speeds, networks used and data transfer limits. They are typically available for specific time periods (e.g. one week) or maximum data amounts (e.g. 3 GB to be used within a certain time period). SIM cards can be purchased at [airports](e2034.html), selected retailers in Japan or via the internet.

#### Rental phones

Renting a phone typically requires a picture ID and a credit card. Many companies have kiosks at the airports, while other companies will mail a phone to your hotel or home. You can return the phones at the airport or through the [mail](e2224.html) depending on the company.

The fees for rental phones vary and are typically around 500-1000 yen per day. Additional fees may apply for calling, messaging, mobile data, insurance etc. Calling rates are typically 50-100 yen per minute for outgoing domestic calls while incoming calls are free. International rates vary depending on the country you are dialing to. All of the companies at the airports offer same-day rentals if stock is available, while some give discounts for advance reservations.

#### Subscription plans (for residents of Japan only)

With subscription plans you pay for your phone usage at the end of a monthly billing cycle. Handsets can be purchased in full or in monthly installments. A [residence card](e2221.html) is required to enroll into a subscription plan.

### Phone manners

Talking on the phone in [trains](e2230.html), [buses](e2015.html), cafes and [restaurants](e2040.html) is a serious breach of [manners](e622.html) to a degree that it can cause hostile reactions. Only on long-distance trains is it acceptable to conduct voice calls outside of the seating area on the decks at either end of each train car.

Likewise, set your phone to silent mode on public transportation or at cafes and restaurants. It is not acceptable to listen to music or other media in public spaces without headphones.

Walking while using a smartphone is a widely committed violation of [good manners](e622.html).

[Telephones in Japan](/e/e2223.html)

[Mobile phones](/e/e2223.html)

[Payphones and landlines](/e/e2223_landline.html)

[How to dial](/e/e2223_how.html)