---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2325.html
title: National Parks of Japan
description: A basic introduction to the National Parks of Japan.
keywords: japan, national, parks, park, quasi, kokuritsukoen, koen, kokuritsu
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 1454
char_count: 10831
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:39:16
---

Daisetsuzan National Park

The first national parks in Japan were established in 1931 to designate and preserve places of scenic natural beauty for people to enjoy. They included the coastal areas around the [Seto Inland Sea](e2325.html#setonaikai) and the mountainous areas of [Kirishima](e2325.html#kirishimakinkowan) and [Unzen Amakusa](e2325.html#unzenamakusa). Today, there are over 30 national parks scattered across the country from the northern tip of [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html) to the southernmost islands of [Okinawa](/list/e1247.html).

Japan's national parks cover a wide range of environments including [volcanoes](e2327.html), forests, marshes, [beaches](e2461.html), coastlines and underwater marine habitats. Visitors to the parks can enjoy a variety of outdoor activities such as [hiking](e2427.html), boating, fishing, [snorkeling](e2424_snorkeling.html), [diving](e2424_diving.html) and [hot springs](e2292.html). Some parks have also established eco tourism activities such as whale and dolphin watching and guided nature hikes.

### Hokkaido

* 

  [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html)

  [Rishiri Rebun Sarobetsu National Park](e6875.html)

  The northernmost of Japan's National Parks, the Rishiri Rebun Sarobetsu National Park is made up of two small islands, [Rishiri](e6876.html) and [Rebun](e6877.html), and part of the coastal area of northern [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html). The park offers [hiking](e2427.html), coastal scenery and a wealth of alpine flowers.
* 

  [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html)

  [Shiretoko National Park](e6850.html)

  [Shiretoko National Park](e6850.html) is one of Japan's most unspoiled national parks and a [UNESCO World Heritage Site](e2251.html). The remote peninsula is home to a high concentration of brown bears which can be viewed from [sightseeing boats](e6852.html) during the warmer months. In winter it is one of the few places in Japan where you can see [drift ice](e6860.html).
* 

  [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html)

  [Akan Mashu National Park](e6800.html)

  [Akan](e6800.html) is a popular national park in eastern [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html) consisting of three lakes surrounded by volcanoes. It is known for its natural scenery, such as [Lake Mashu](e6802.html), one of Japan's most beautiful lakes.
* 

  [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html)

  [Kushiro Shitsugen National Park](e6792.html)

  The [Kushiro Shitsugen National Park](e6792.html) was created to preserve Japan's largest wetland and marsh habitat. The park is home to the only known population of endangered Japanese Cranes, which have made a dramatic recovery due to the parks conservation efforts. The cranes are a popular attraction and can be seen in winter at feeding sites and observation centers around the park.
* 

  [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html)

  [Daisetsuzan National Park](e6775.html)

  [Daisetsuzan](e6775.html) is [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html)'s largest national park. Its volcanic mountains are a paradise of unspoiled wilderness and the earliest places in Japan to see [autumn colors](e2014.html) and snow each year. The park is one of the few places where you can do weeklong treks in nothing but nature.
* 

  [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html)

  [Shikotsu Toya National Park](e6735.html)

  [Shikotsu Toya National Park](e6735.html) offers a variety of outdoor activities such as [hiking](e2427.html), hot springs and some leading [ski resorts](e2262_resort.html) around its caldera lakes and volcanoes. Its proximity to Sapporo makes it a popular destination for those with limited time in [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html).

### Tohoku Region

* 

  Aomori, Iwate and Miyagi prefectures

  [Sanriku Recovery National Park](e5025.html)

  Stretching along the Pacific Ocean across [Aomori](/list/e1202.html), [Iwate](/list/e1204.html) and [Miyagi](/list/e1206.html) prefectures, the [Sanriku Coast](e5025.html) experienced the worst damage and loss of life in the [2011 tsunami](e5027.html). Some of the most scenic parts of the coast have been designated as Rikuchu Kaigan National Park since 1955. In 2013, the national park was expanded and renamed Sanriku Fukko National Park (Fukko means Recovery) to encourage the recovery of the region.
* 

  Fukushima, Yamagata and Niigata prefectures

  [Bandai Asahi National Park](e7750.html)

  The Bandai Asahi National Park covers four separate volcanic mountain chains in the southern [Tohoku Region](/list/e1102.html) including [Mount Bandai](e7750.html) and the sacred [Dewa Sanzan](e7900.html) mountains. Outdoor activities such as [hiking](e2427.html) and [winter sports](e2262.html) can be enjoyed around the area.

### Kanto Region

* 

  Tochigi and Gunma prefectures

  [Nikko National Park](e3800.html)

  Both a [UNESCO World Heritage Site](e2251.html) and national park, [Nikko](e3800.html) offers visitors a large variety of natural and cultural attractions including the [Toshogu Shrine](e3801.html), [Kinugawa Onsen](e3875.html), [Nasu-Shiobara](e3840.html), and the lakes, mountains and waterfalls of [Okunikko](e3806.html). The popular park is an easy side trip from [Tokyo](e2164.html).
* 

  Gunma, Fukushima, Niigata and Tochigi prefectures

  [Oze National Park](e7440.html)

  [Oze National Park](e7440.html) centers around a large marshland at an altitude of 1400 meters in the border area between four different prefectures. It is known for its skunk cabbages which bloom from late spring to early summer and as a place to see early [autumn colors](e2014.html).
* 

  [Tokyo Metropolis](e2164.html)

  [Ogasawara National Park](e8200.html)

  The [Ogasawara Islands](e8200.html) are a remote island chain 1000 kilometers south of [Tokyo](e2164.html). They were designated a [World Heritage Site](e2251.html) due to the unique habitats and endemic plants and animals found only there. Located on a similar latitude as [Okinawa](/list/e1247.html), the subtropical islands share a relaxed hospitality and offer activities such as whale and dolphin watching, sea kayaking, [snorkeling](e2424_snorkeling.html) and [diving](e2424_diving.html).

### Chubu Region

* 

  Yamanashi, Shizuoka and Kanagawa prefectures

  [Fuji Hakone Izu National Park](e2172.html)

  Japan's most visited national park, Fuji Hakone Izu consists of several extremely popular outdoor spots within easy reach of Tokyo: [Mount Fuji](e2172.html), [Hakone](e5200.html), the [Izu Peninsula](e6310.html) and the Izu Islands. The park offers a wide variety of outdoor attractions including mountain climbing, [hot springs](e2292.html) and [beaches](e2461.html).
* 

  Nagano, Gifu, Niigata and Toyama prefectures

  [Chubu Sangaku National Park](e6043.html)

  The [Chubu Sangaku National Park](e6043.html), also known as the Northern Japan Alps, encompasses a set of high mountain ranges known for their beautiful alpine scenery. The park includes popular outdoor getaways such as [Kamikochi](e6040.html) and the [Tateyama Kurobe Alpine Route](e7550.html), as well as famous [ski resorts](e2262_resort.html) and [hot spring towns](e2292_where.html).
* 

  Ishikawa, Gifu, Fukui and Toyama prefectures

  [Hakusan National Park](e4285.html)

  The centerpiece of Hakusan National Park is [Mount Hakusan](e4285.html), the tallest mountain in western Japan and an important spiritual symbol. Although covered in snow for much of the year, the mountain becomes a popular [hiking](e2427.html) destination in the warmer months.

### Kansai Region

* 

  [Mie Prefecture](/list/e1255.html)

  [Ise Shima National Park](e4310.html)

  The Ise Shima National Park encompasses the [Shima Peninsula](e4310.html), a coastal resort area in central Japan known for its rugged shore and a history of [pearl cultivation](e4306.html). At the western edge of the park lie the [Ise Shrines](e4300.html), the most important and sacred [Shinto shrines](e2059.html).
* 

  Nara, Mie and Wakayama prefectures

  [Yoshino Kumano National Park](e4150.html)

  The Yoshino Kumano National Park covers the southern coastal areas and interior mountain of the Kii Peninsula. The park includes [Mount Yoshino](e4150.html), Japan's most famous [cherry blossom spot](e2011_where.html); and the sacred [Kumano Region](e4950.html), both of which are also [UNESCO World Heritage Sites](e2251.html).

### Chugoku Region

* 

  Tottori, Hyogo and Kyoto prefectures

  [Sanin Kaigan National Park](e8102.html)

  The Sanin Kaigan National Park stretches 75 kilometers along the Sea of Japan coast. The park includes attractions such as [Kinosaki Onsen](e3525.html), lots of beautiful rocky shoreline, and the [Tottori Sand Dunes](e8102.html), the largest in Japan.
* 

  [Seto Inland Sea](e5445.html)

  [Setonaikai National Park](e5445.html)

  The Setonaikai National Park covers a large portion of the [Seto Inland Sea](e5445.html), stretching nearly 400 kilometers from the [Naruto Whirlpools](e7852.html) to [Miyajima](e3401.html) and beyond. The park includes hundreds of island such as [Naoshima](e5475.html), [Shodoshima](e5430.html), [Inujima](e5725.html), [Ogijima](e5413.html) and [Megijima](e5412.html), as well as other attractions like the [Shimanami Kaido](e3478.html).
* 

  Shimane, Tottori and Okayama prefectures

  [Daisen Oki National Park](e8150.html)

  The Daisen Oki National Park combines the Oki Islands and coastal areas around [Shimane Prefecture](/list/e1237.html) with [Mount Daisen](e8150.html) in western [Tottori](/list/e1231.html). The tallest mountain in the region, Mount Daisen is both an important spiritual icon and a popular [hiking](e2427.html) destination.

### Kyushu

* 

  Nagasaki, Kumamoto and Kagoshima prefectures

  [Unzen Amakusa National Park](e4452.html)

  Unzen Amakusa National Park in western [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html) was one of the first national parks to be designated in Japan. It includes [Mount Unzen](e4452.html), an active volcano that erupted in the early 1990s with devastating effects, as well as the coastal landscapes and marine zones of the [Amakusa Islands](e4590.html).
* 

  Oita and Kumamoto prefectures

  [Aso Kuju National Park](e4570.html)

  [Aso Kuju National Park](e4570.html) encompasses the dramatic landscape around the active volcanoes of [Mount Aso](e4552.html) and the [Kuju Mountains](e4775.html) in central Kyushu. Visitors can hike around the craters or visit some of the best [hot spring towns](e2292_where.html) in Japan which are located nearby.
* 

  Kagoshima and Miyazaki prefectures

  [Kirishima Kinkowan National Park](e4625.html)

  Kirishima Kinkowan National Park combines the coastal areas of southern Kagoshima with the volcanoes of [Sakurajima](e4601.html) and [Kirishima](e4625.html). The former is one of Japan's most active volcanoes, while the latter is a great [hiking](e2427.html) and [hot spring](e2292.html) destination and plays an important role in Japanese mythology.
* 

  [Kagoshima Prefecture](/list/e1246.html)

  [Yakushima National Park](e4650.html)

  Originally exploited as a lumber source, [Yakushima](e4650.html) is a heavily forested, subtropical island of the southern coast of Kagoshima Prefecture. The island is home to several endemic species such as Yakushima monkeys and deer, as well as a number of several thousand year old cedar trees. Visitors can hike through the forests and visit the ancient trees, including the 7000 year old [Jomonsugi](e4653.html).

### Okinawa & Amami

* 

  [Kagoshima Prefecture](/list/e1246.html)

  [Amami Gunto National Park](e4690.html)

  Amami Gunto National Park includes areas on [Amami Oshima](e4690.html) and some nearby islands. Sometimes nicknamed as the "Galapagos of the East", the islands feature a variety of life forms only seen there. The islands are also popular for their beaches.
* 

  [Okinawa Prefecture](/list/e1247.html)

  [Yambaru National Park](e7131.html)

  [Yambaru National Park](e7131.html) covers the northern part of the [Okinawa Main Island](e7101.html). The area is only sparsely populated and covered mostly by densely forested mountains and hills and a pretty coastline. The Yambaru forests are home to a variety of wildlife, including the Yanbaru Kuina, a small, nearly-flightless bird only found there.
* 

  [Okinawa Prefecture](/list/e1247.html)

  [Kerama National Park](e7190.html)

  Kerama National Park consists of the [Kerama Islands](e7190.html), a small island group 40 kilometers west of [Okinawa Main Island](e7101.html). The islands are very popular for their beautiful beaches and surrounding waters which allow for high-quality sunbathing, [snorkeling](e2424_snorkeling.html) and [diving](e2424_diving.html).
* 

  [Okinawa Prefecture](/list/e1247.html)

  [Iriomote Ishigaki National Park](e7200.html)

  The Iriomote Ishigaki National Park is covers the tropical islands and marine habitats found around the [Yaeyama Islands](e7200.html) in southwestern [Okinawa](/list/e1247.html). This island paradise offers plenty of [beaches](e2461.html) for swimming, [snorkeling](e2424_snorkeling.html) and [diving](e2424_diving.html). Visitors can also explore the islands' jungle interiors or kayaking on their mangrove lined rivers.