---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2303.html
title: 2025/2026 Winter Illuminations in Tokyo
description: About seasonal illuminations in Tokyo around Christmas and New Year.
keywords: tokyo, christmas, xmas, winter, illumination, illuminations, light, lights, show
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 3159
char_count: 22459
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:01:24
---

Keyakizaka Street in Roppongi Hills

Below is a list of some of [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s best [winter illuminations](e2304.html). See also our [nationwide list of illumination events](e2304.html). (Photos are from previous years)

* 

  [Tokyo Midtown](e3031_midtown.html)

  November 13 to December 25, 2025  
  17:00 to 23:00

  During the "Midtown Christmas", an illumination event is held in the garden behind the main tower of [Tokyo Midtown](e3031_midtown.html). A paid ice rink (11:00 to 21:00, from November 21) and an illuminated "Walkway of Light" is held beyond Christmas until February 23, 2026.
* 

  [Marunouchi](e3037.html)

  November 13, 2025 to February 15, 2026  
  16:00 to 23:00 (until midnight in December)

  The entire district lights up for the [Maranouchi](e3037.html)'s holiday events. Illuminations and displays will take place especially along Nakadori Street, and at several of the buildings in the district.
* 

  [Roppongi Hills](e3031_hills.html)

  November 4 to December 25, 2025  
  17:00 to 23:00

  The highlight of the seasonal illumination around the [Roppongi Hills](e3031_hills.html) complex is Keyakizaka Street in the back of the complex. A Christmas market is held from November 22 (11:00 to 21:00).
* 

  Azabudai Hills

  November 22 to December 25, 2025  
  11:00 to 21:00

  A Christmas market with illuminations is held at the base of Japan's tallest skyscraper in the "Central Green" area of Azabudai Hills, which was completed in 2023.
* 

  [Tokyo Snow Dome City](e3039.html)

  November 17, 2025 to March 1, 2026  
  17:00 to 24:00

  [Tokyo Dome City](e3039.html)'s winter illumination features an impressive collection of light up displays and events that can be enjoyed around Tokyo Dome and the adjacent amusement park.
* 

  [Omotesando](e3006.html)

  December 1 to 28, 2025  
  Sunset to 22:00

  The zelkova trees lining [Omotesando](e3006.html) are decorated with LED light bulbs along most of the street's length between Harajuku and Omotesando stations.
* 

  [Shinjuku](e3011.html)

  Minamilumi:  
  November 12, 2025 to February 15, 2026  
  17:00 to 24:00 (from 16:30 in December)

  Illumination displays are found spread around the south of [JR Shinjuku Station](e3011.html), especially on the Shinjuku Southern Terrace.
* 

  Meguro-gawa Minna no Illumination

  December 5, 2025 to January 31, 2026  
  17:00 to 22:30

  The trees along the Meguro River between Gotanda and Osaki stations on the [Yamanote Line](e2370.html) are decorated in pink LED lights to resemble [cherry blossoms](e2011.html). The illumination spans a length of about two kilometers, making for a pretty riverside stroll.
* 

  Shibuya Ao no Dokutsu

  December 4 to 25, 2025  
  17:00 to 22:00

  The main venue of the Ao no Dokutsu illumination (lit. "blue cave") is the 250 meter long pedestrian street in front of the NHK headquarters in [Shibuya](e3007.html). The zelkova trees that line the street are covered in blue LED lights and a reflective sheet is laid out in the center of the street. Blue is cast everywhere and one can easily imagine themselves to be in a blue cave.
* 

  [Odaiba](e3008.html)

  Decks Odaiba:  
  Around the year  
  Sunset to 24:00

  The Decks Odaiba shopping center offers illuminations around the year, including the "Daiba Memorial Tree".
* 

  [Yebisu Garden Place](e3028.html)

  November 8, 2025 to March 1, 2026  
  16:00 to 23:00

  Seasonal illuminations can be enjoyed in many areas of [Yebisu Garden Place](e3028.html). In addition, a Christmas Market is held daily until December 25 from 5pm to 8pm (from noon on weekends). And a huge crystal chandelier is displayed through January 12.
* 

  Yomiuriland Jewellumination

  October 23, 2025 to April 5, 2026 (closed on selected days)  
  16:00 to 20:30 (until 21:00 on some days)  
  Admission: 1800 yen

  Virtually every tree, building and attraction in the Yomiuriland [amusement park](e2067.html) just outside of central [Tokyo](e2164.html) is covered with lights, creating one of the largest illumination displays in the Tokyo area.