---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2304.html
title: 2025/2026 Winter Illuminations in Japan
description: About winter illuminations in Japan.
keywords: japan, winter, christmas, xmas, new, year, years, illumination, illuminations, light, lights, show
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 980
char_count: 7023
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:42:40
---

Winter illuminations around Christmas and [New Year](e2064.html) have become a popular attraction in cities across Japan. Illuminations are typically displayed between November and December, but some run longer, starting as early as October and running until Valentine's Day or even into spring. Among Japan's first and most spectacular light shows is [Kobe](e2159.html)'s Luminarie, an Italian designed light festival which was first held as a memorial to the victims of the disastrous [Kobe earthquake](e3555.html) in 1995. Below are some of Japan's popular seasonal illumination spots:

(Photos are from previous years)

### Tokyo

* 

  [Tokyo Midtown](e3031_midtown.html)

  November 13 to December 25, 2025  
  17:00 to 23:00  
  Admission: free

  During the "Midtown Christmas", an illumination event is held in the garden behind the main tower of [Tokyo Midtown](e3031_midtown.html). A paid ice rink (11:00 to 21:00, from November 21) and an illuminated "Walkway of Light" is held beyond Christmas until February 23, 2026.
* 

  [Marunouchi](e3037.html)

  November 13, 2025 to February 15, 2026  
  16:00 to 23:00 (until midnight in December)  
  Admission: free

  The entire district lights up for the [Marunouchi](e3037.html)'s holiday events. Illuminations and displays take place especially along Nakadori Street, and at several of the buildings in the district.

[More illumination displays in Tokyo...](e2303.html)

### Kanagawa

* 

  Sagamiko Illumillion

  November 15, 2025 to May 10, 2026 (except selected weekdays from January and all weekdays from April 6)  
  16:00 to 20:00 (until 20:30 or 21:00 on selected days)  
  Admission: 2000 yen  
  Access: 8 minute bus ride from JR Sagamiko Station

  The Sagamiko Illumillion in Lake Sagami Resort Pleasure Forest is one of the largest seasonal illuminations in the [Kanto Region](/list/e1103.html). Visitors to the illumination event can see millions of LED lights covering the hillsides in color, an animated lightshow and dancing water fountain set to music, light tunnels, a chair lift up the hillside and amusement park rides including a Ferris wheel.
* 

  Yomiuriland Jewellumination

  October 23, 2025 to April 5, 2026 (closed on selected days)  
  16:00 to 20:30 (until 21:00 on some days)  
  Admission: 1800 yen  
  Access: Keio Yomiuriland Station or Odakyu Yomiuriland Station

  Virtually every tree, building and attraction in the Yomiuriland [amusement park](e2067.html) just outside of central [Tokyo](e2164.html) is covered with lights, creating one of the largest illumination displays in the Tokyo area.

### Sendai

* 

  Sendai Pageant of Starlight

  December 5 to 28, 2025  
  19:00 to 22:00 (from 18:00 on weekends; until 21:00 on Sundays)  
  Admission: free  
  Access: 20 minute walk from JR Sendai Station

  This illumination event in [Sendai](e5150.html) is located along Jozenji-dori Street with about 160 keyaki (zelkova) trees, which are decorated with over half a million LED lights that bathe the area in a warm glow. Other attractions include a small ice skating rink.

### Tochigi

* 

  [Ashikaga Flower Fantasy](e3850.html)

  October 18, 2025 to February 15, 2026 (closed on December 31)  
  15:30 to 20:30 (until 21:00 or 21:30 on selected days)  
  Admission: 1400 yen  
  Access: A short walk from JR Ashikaga Flower Park Station

  The Ashikaga Flower Fantasy in [Ashikaga Flower Park](e3850.html) is one of the [Kanto Region](/list/e1103.html)'s largest seasonal illumination events with over five million LED lights covering most of the park. Attractions include hanging lights that are meant to resemble seasonal flowers and music-synchronized light shows.

### Nagoya

* 

  [Nabana no Sato Winter Illumination](e3313.html)

  October 18, 2025 to May 31, 2026 (closed on selected days)  
  Sunset to 21:00 (until 22:00 on selected days)  
  Admission: 3000 yen (2500 until 11/21 and from 3/1)  
  Access: 30 minutes by bus and train from central Nagoya

  With millions of LED lights illuminating the [flower park](e2423.html), [Nabana no Sato](e3313.html) is one of the largest illumination events in Japan. There are various attractions including a huge field transformed into a sea of lights below an animated light show, light tunnels and an observation deck that lifts visitors high above the park for a bird's eye view of the lights.

### Osaka

* 

  Osaka Hikari Renaissance

  December 14 to 25, 2025; 17:00 to 22:00 (hours vary by attraction)  
  Admission: free  
  Access: Short walk from Yodoyabashi or Naniwabashi Station

  Nakanoshima Island hosts the Osaka Hikari Renaissance illumination event, stretching from Osaka City Hall to the eastern tip of Nakanoshima Park. Several of the historic buildings on the island are lit up with creative displays.
* 

  Midosuji Illumination

  April 9 to December 31, 2025; 17:00 to 1:00  
  Admission: free  
  Access: stations along Midosuji Street, incl. Yodoyabashi and Shinsaibashi

  The Midosuji Illumination stretches almost the entire length of the three kilometer long Midosuji Street through central Osaka between [Umeda](e4009.html) and [Namba](e4001.html), making it one of the world's longest illuminated streets. In the regular year, the illuminations starts in early November, but because of the [2025 Osaka Expo](/event/expo-2025/), it has been held since April this year.

### Kobe

* 

  Kobe Luminarie

  January 30 to February 8, 2026, 17:30 to 21:30  
  Admission: mostly free of charge, but there is a paid area at Meriken Park (1000 yen on weekdays, 1500 yen on weekends; 50% off if purchased [in advance](https://kobe-luminarie.jp/ticket/))

  The Kobe Luminarie is one of Japan's oldest winter illumination events. It was started in 1995 in the wake of the [Great Hanshin Earthquake](e3555.html) and meant as a memorial to the victims and to inspire hope in recovery. Since 2024, the event has been held in January instead of December and distributed over multiple sites, including Kobe East Park (Higashi Yuenchi), the [Kitano-cho district](e3550.html) and [Meriken Park](e3552.html).

### Nagasaki

* 

  Kingdom of Light

  Around the year  
  Admission: 5600 yen (entry after 3pm), 7400 yen (full day passport)  
  Access: Inside [Huis Ten Bosch](e4477.html)

  Some of Japan's largest illumination displays can be found at [Huis Ten Bosch](e4477.html), a Dutch-themed [amusement park](e2067.html). Illuminations can be enjoyed year around, while seasonally themed illuminations are added, as well.