---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2027.html
title: Narita Airport (NRT)
description: Visitor guide for Narita International Airport, the international airport of Tokyo.
keywords: narita, airport, tokyo, NRT
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 2657
char_count: 18049
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:59:18
---

Tokyo has two [airports](e2034.html), Narita International Airport (成田空港, Narita Kūkō, NRT), which handles a large number of [international flights](e2034.html) as well as domestic and international flights by many low-budget airlines, and the more centrally located [Haneda Airport](e2430.html) (HND), which handles the city's main share of [domestic traffic](e2365.html) and an increasing number of international flights.

Narita Airport (formerly also known as New Tokyo International Airport) is located in the city of [Narita](e6400.html) in [Chiba Prefecture](/list/e1212.html), about 60 kilometers outside of [Tokyo](e2164.html). It consists of three terminal buildings: terminal 1, terminal 2 and terminal 3. Terminal 1 and 2 each have a railway station in their respective basements. Terminal 3 serves low-budget airlines and is connected with terminal 2 by a pedestrian walkway. Free shuttle buses operate between all three terminals.

From/To:

Tokyo StationShinjuku StationIkebukuro StationAsakusaYokohamaDisney ResortHaneda Airport

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

The most comfortable way of travel between Narita Airport and [Tokyo Station](e3037.html) is the JR Narita Express (NEX). The one way journey takes roughly one hour, costs around 3000 yen and is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), [JR Tokyo Wide Area Pass](e2361_06.html) and some other [JR passes](e2357.html). There are departures every 30 to 60 minutes. The [NEX Tokyo Round Trip Ticket](e2359_nex.html) for 5000 yen provides foreign travelers with a discounted round trip from the airport into Tokyo and back within a 2-week period.

[Book Now](/rail.html?origin=Tokyo&destination=Narita-Airport)

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

The JR Sobu Line (Rapid Service) is the slower but cheaper JR alternative to the Narita Express. The one way trip takes roughly 90 minutes and costs 1340 yen. There is about one departure per hour. Seat reservations are not possible.

Take the Keisei Skyliner from Narita Airport to Nippori Station (about 40 minutes, 2580 yen) and transfer to the [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html) or [JR Keihin-Tohoku Line](e2371.html) to get to Tokyo Station (10 minutes, 170 yen). There are connections every 20-40 minutes. All seats on the Skyliner are reserved. International tourists can ride the Skyliner for just 2310 yen with the [Skyliner Discount Ticket](https://www.klook.com/activity/1410-skyliner-tokyo/?aid=12675), which needs to be purchased in advance online or via a travel agent outside of Japan.

Take the Keisei Main Line from Narita Airport to Nippori Station (about 75-90 minutes, 1060 yen, one transfer along the way may be required) and transfer to the [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html) or [JR Keihin-Tohoku Line](e2371.html) to get to Tokyo Station (10 minutes, 170 yen). There are multiple connections per hour. Seat reservations are not possible.

Limousine buses to [Tokyo Station](e3037.html) depart Narita Airport about hourly. The one way journey takes about 100 minutes and costs 3100 yen. In addition, there are direct limousine bus connections to several major hotels in the Tokyo Station area. It is possible to purchase e-tickets online via [Klook](https://www.klook.com/activity/2274-narita-haneda-airport-limousine-bus-tokyo/?aid=12675).

[Book Now](https://www.klook.com/activity/2274-narita-haneda-airport-limousine-bus-tokyo/?aid=12675)

"Airport Bus TYO-NRT" buses operate multiple times per hour between Narita Airport, Tokyo Station and Ginza Station. The one way fare is 1500 yen during the day and 3000 yen for late-night and early-morning departures.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

### Means of access to/from Narita Airport

* 

  JR Narita Express (NEX)

  About 3100 yen, 60 minutes to central Tokyo  
  Departures every 30-60 minutes

  The Narita Express is a fast and comfortable airport train into central Tokyo (serving Tokyo, Shinagawa and Shinjuku stations), the Tokyo Tama region and [Yokohama](e2156.html). All seats are reserved. The [NEX Tokyo Round Trip Ticket](e2359_nex.html) for foreign travelers provides a discount over regular tickets.
* 

  JR Sobu Line (Rapid Service)

  About 1300 yen, 85 minutes to central Tokyo  
  Departures every 60 minutes

  The Rapid Sobu Line is the inexpensive JR alternative to the Narita Express, connecting the airport with [Tokyo Station](e2017.html) and [Yokohama](e2156.html). The Rapid Sobu Line is a normal commuter train, which stops at several stations between the airport and Tokyo and can become crowded during [rush hours](e2020.html). Seat reservations are not possible.
* 

  Keisei Skyliner

  About 2500 yen, 40 minutes to central Tokyo  
  Departures every 20-40 minutes

  The Keisei Skyliner provides the fastest connection into central Tokyo, connecting the airport with [Ueno Station](e2017.html). It is a comfortable [train](e2019.html) for travelers to and from the airport. All seats are reserved. Keisei offers discount ticket packages to arriving tourists that combine the Skyliner ride from the airport to central Tokyo with day passes for the subway lines in Tokyo. If [purchased in advance](https://www.klook.com/activity/1410-skyliner-tokyo/?aid=12675), foreign tourists pay only 2310 yen for the one way ride.
* 

  Keisei Main Line

  About 1100 yen, 75-90 minutes to central Tokyo  
  Multiple departures per hour

  The most inexpensive option by Keisei Railway is taking normal commuter trains along the Keisei Main Line, which stop at several stations between the airport and Tokyo and can become crowded during rush hours. Seat reservations are not possible. While there are some direct trains in the mornings and evenings, the journey requires one transfer along the way during the rest of the day.
* 

  Keisei/Keikyu Narita-Haneda Express

  About 1500 yen, 60 minutes to Haneda Airport  
  Departures every 40 minutes

  Some express trains directly connect Narita Airport to Tokyo's other airport, [Haneda Airport](e2430.html) via the Narita Sky Access Line, Asakusa Subway Line and Keikyu Airport Line. Along the way they stop several times in central Tokyo, including [Asakusa](e3004.html), [Ginza](e3005.html) and [Shinagawa](e3040.html). Seat reservations are not possible.
* 

  Bus

  About 1500-3500 yen, 60-90 minutes to central Tokyo

  Several [bus](e2015.html) companies offer connections to various places in the Tokyo area and neighboring [prefectures](/list/e1002.html), including direct connections to major hotels across central Tokyo. Conventional "limousine buses" cost around 3000 yen one way, while several cheaper bus services offer one way fares of around 1500 yen.
* 

  Taxi

  About 30,000 yen, 60-90 minutes to central Tokyo

  Because Narita Airport is located about 60 km outside of Tokyo, a [taxi](e2021.html) ride into central Tokyo is very expensive and not recommended to common travelers.
* 

  Airport transfers

  From around 15,000 yen, 60-90 minutes to central Tokyo

  There exist a wide range of private and shared airport transfer services for transport from and to Narita Airport. Many include meet and greet services and English speaking drivers. Among the travel websites allowing for reservations of such services with instant confirmation is [Klook](https://www.klook.com/airport-transfers/service/nrt-narita-international-airport/?aid=12675).

### What to see around Narita Airport

Narita Airport is located 60 kilometers or a one hour train ride outside of central [Tokyo](e2164.html). When planning a short excursion into central Tokyo, you should allot at least three hours for the train trip in and out of the city, and check the schedule for your return trip in advance.

There are also a few [points of interest in the vicinity of the airport](e6400.html) itself, including [Naritasan](e6401.html), a large and popular [temple](e2058.html) complex in [Narita City](e6400.html). An excursion from the airport to Naritasan requires at least three hours, to be on the safe side. See the [Narita](e6400.html) section for details on other attractions around the airport.