---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2423.html
title: Flowers in Japan
description: A look at flowers popular in Japan, their blooming periods and where to find them.
keywords: flower, flowers, japan, hanami, hana
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 1212
char_count: 8643
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:40:46
---

The seasons are a main theme in the Japanese culture, and flowers are like mirrors to the seasons, reflecting the passage of time. Fittingly, flower viewing is a very popular activity in Japan as most prominently seen in the annual festivities surrounding the [cherry blossoms](e2011.html), but not limited to them.

The following chart shows the approximate blooming periods for some of the most popular flowers in Japan. One point to note is that because Japan extends north to south for some 3500 kilometers, a particular flower species might blossom at differing times across regions with varying climate. The chart serves as a rough reference for the country in general. It is recommended to check on details for specific locations before visiting.

### Popular types of flowers

Left: **Plum blossoms (ume)** - typically mid February through March in Tokyo  
Right: **Cherry blossoms (sakura)** - typically late March to mid April in Tokyo

Left: **Tulips** - typically late April to early May in Tonami, Toyama  
Right: **Pink moss (shibazakura)** - typically mid April to mid May in Fujigoko

Left: **Roses (bara)** - typically May and October in Tokyo  
Right: **Wisteria (fuji)** - typically late April to early May in Tokyo

Left: **Hydrangea (ajisai)** - typically mid June to mid July in Kamakura and Hakone  
Right: **Irises (hanashobu)** - typically June in Tokyo

Left: **Sunflowers (himawari)** - typically early July to early August in Hokkaido  
Right: **Lavender** - typically mid July to early August in Hokkaido

**Autumn Colors (koyo)** - typically mid September to early December across Japan

### Flower related places of interest

There are many places in Japan where various species of flowers can be appreciated at different times of the year. Flower parks and botanical gardens are usually great locations for flower viewing. Some [temples](e2058.html) and [shrines](e2059.html) may also be famous for particular flowers. Below is a list of places which are popular for flower viewing.

See also our pages on [cherry blossom](e2011_where.html), [plum blossom](e2013.html) and [autumn color](e2014_where.html) spots.

### Hokkaido

* 

  [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html)

  [Furano Flower Fields](e6826.html)

  Known for: Lavender and sunflowers

  The [flower fields](e6826.html) of [Furano](e6825.html) offer a wide variety of flowers from May to October; however, the region is most famous for its lavender which attracts large numbers of visitors every summer, when the plants are in full bloom.
* 

  [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html)

  [Biei](e6828.html)

  Known for: Lavender and various flowers

  The rolling hills of [Biei](e6828.html) are home to multiple flower parks with various flower fields. Some can be enjoyed not only by walking along the trails, but also by renting golf or buggy carts or taking a ride on tractor-pulled wagons.

### Around Tokyo

* 

  [Gunma Prefecture](/list/e1209.html)

  Tambara Flower Park

  Known for: Lavender

  Tambara Flower Park is located in [Gunma Prefecture](/list/e1209.html). Over 50,000 lavender bushes are planted on the Tambara plateau, creating a spectacular lavender flower park in the summer. The area is a ski resort in the winter.
* 

  [Gunma Prefecture](/list/e1209.html)

  Gunma Flower Park

  Known for: Various flowers

  Gunma Flower Park offers an extensive collection of flower varieties which bloom during different seasons, including tulips, irises and roses.
* 

  [Tochigi Prefecture](/list/e1210.html)

  [Ashikaga Flower Park](e3850.html)

  Known for: Wisteria

  One of the best places to view wisteria is the Ashikaga Flower Park in Ashikaga City, [Tochigi Prefecture](/list/e1210.html). Ashikaga Flower Park features lots of blue, white and pink wisteria, as well as yellow laburnum (Japanese: kingusari) that look like yellow colored wisteria.
* 

  [Near Mito](e6200.html)

  [Hitachi Seaside Park](e6203.html)

  Known for: Nemophila and other flowers

  The huge park outside of [Mito](e6200.html) features large fields of flowers during much of the year. Among the most famous displays are the fields of nemophila around late April to mid May and the red kokia bushes around early to mid October.
* 

  [Chichibu](e6550.html)

  [Chichibu Hitsujiyama Park](e6555.html)

  Known for: Pink Moss

  This park features wide fields of pink moss in almost ten varieties and colors. The flowers are strategically planted to produce delightful designs across the fields. From the northern end of the park, gorgeous views of pink moss with Mount Buko in the backdrop can be seen.
* 

  [Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)

  Kameido Shrine

  Known for: Wisteria

  Kameido Shrine in [Tokyo](e2164.html) is a great place to view wisteria. Every year, thousands of people visit the [shrine](e2059.html) to appreciate the wisteria, which bloom from late April to early May.
* 

  [Kamakura](/e/e2166.html)

  [Meigetsuin Temple](e3118.html)

  Known for: Hydrangea and irises

  [Meigetsuin](e3118.html) is also known as "Ajisaidera", meaning "Hydrangea Temple". This is because [hydrangea](e2423_ajisai.html) bloom in abundance at the [temple](e2058.html) during the [rainy season](e2277.html) around June, and they usually attract large numbers of visitors.
* 

  [Kamakura](/e/e2166.html)

  [Hase Temple](e3101.html)

  Known for: Hydrangea

  [Hasedera](e3101.html) is famous for its huge statue of Kannon, the goddess of mercy. Every summer, huge crowds come to the [temple](e2058.html) to visit its [hydrangea](e2423_ajisai.html) garden. Long queues may be expected due to the popularity of the hydrangea.
* 

  [Hakone](/e/e5200.html)

  [Hakone Tozan Railway](e5202.html)

  Known for: Hydrangea

  A ride on the [Hakone Tozan Railway](e5202.html), Japan's oldest mountain railway, is a treat for more than just [railway](e2019.html) fans. The ride is especially beautiful in June and July when thousands of [hydrangea](e2423_ajisai.html) are in bloom along the tracks and are illuminated during the evenings.
* 

  [Hakone](/e/e5200.html)

  [Gora Park](e5216.html)

  Known for: Roses

  This is a western style landscape park located in [Hakone](e5200.html), featuring a large fountain and a rose garden. Visitors can also take part in [craft activities](e2424.html) such as dried flower arrangement.
* 

  [Boso Peninsula](/e/e6430.html)

  [Boso Flower Line](e6435.html)

  Known for: Nanohana, poppies and other early spring flowers

  The [Boso Flower Line](e6435.html) is a road that follows the southern coast of the [Boso Peninsula](e6430.html) between [Tateyama](e6434.html) and Chikura. Several flower farms and parks are located along the road which are particularly pretty from January to April. Its mild climate, makes the peninsula one of the earliest flower destinations each year.
* 

  [Yamanashi Prefecture](/list/e1217.html)

  [Fuji Shibazakura Matsuri](e6919.html)

  Known for: Pink Moss

  The [Fuji Shibazakura Festival](e6919.html) is perhaps the best occasion to see pink moss (shibazakura). Wide fields of lovely shibazakura combine with [Mount Fuji](e2172.html) in the backdrop on clear days to produce breathtaking scenery. Hundreds of thousands of flowers in various colors can be enjoyed at the festival grounds, which is located a short distance south of [Motosuko Lake](e6910.html).

### Central Japan

* 

  [Near Takaoka](/e/e7525.html)

  [Tonami Tulip Fair](e7531.html)

  Known for: Tulips

  Held in late April and early May, the [Tonami Tulip Fair](e7531.html) is an annual festival held in Tonami City, the country's leading producer of tulip bulbs. It features large fields of tulips of many different varieties.
* 

  [Nagoya](/e/e2155.html)

  [Nabana no Sato](e3313.html)

  Known for: Cherry blossoms, roses, tulips, hydrangea, irises

  This is a park which provides great views of seasonal flowers throughout the year. Every spring, it hosts a flower [festival](e2063.html) which is claimed to be of the largest scale in Japan. Winter illuminations are held from mid November to early March. Nabana no Sato is part of [Nagashima Resort](e3313.html), which features the famous amusement park [Nagashima Spaland](e3313.html).

### Around Osaka

* 

  [Osaka](/e/e2157.html)

  Tsurumi Ryokuchi Park

  Known for: Cherry blossoms, roses, tulips

  Tsurumi Ryokuchi Park located in [Osaka](e2157.html) is a great place to view [cherry blossoms](e2011.html). The large park hosted the International Garden and Greenery Exposition in 1990, and features many gardens of various countries.

### Shikoku

* 

  [Kochi](/e/e5600.html)

  Makino Botanical Garden

  Known for: Irises and various flowers

  [Makino Botanical Garden](e5604.html) in [Kochi](e5600.html) includes extensive walking paths, outdoor parks and a greenhouse. The spacious garden has various flowers on display.

### Kyushu

* 

  [Nagasaki Prefecture](/list/e1240.html)

  [Huis Ten Bosch](e4477.html)

  Known for: Tulips and roses

  [Huis Ten Bosch](e4477.html) is a [theme park](e2067.html) in [Nagasaki Prefecture](/list/e1240.html) which recreates a Dutch town. It has an attractive landscape, enhanced by lots of seasonal flowers, especially tulips for which Holland is famous.
* 

  [Oita Prefecture](/list/e1243.html)

  [Kuju Flower Park](e4772.html)

  Known for: Various varieties

  [Kuju Flower Park](e4772.html) on the slopes of [Mount Kuju](e4775.html) is a large, attractive park with large flower fields of about three million plants of more than 500 different varieties.
* 

  [Satsuma Peninsula](/e/e4675.html)

  [Flower Park Kagoshima](e4680.html)

  Known for: Various varieties including tropical flowers

  [Flower Park Kagoshima](e4680.html) is located near the southern tip of the [Satsuma Peninsula](e4675.html). It is a large, attractive park with about half a million plants of more than 2400 varieties.


[## The Basics about Overtourism in Japan

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2423.html+report+topstory+255+338+0+/news/overtourism.html)

[## Tokyo to Osaka, But Not the Usual Way

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2423.html+report+jrkintetsu+1+11+0+/ad/jr-kintetsu-pearl-route/)

[## Ultimate Guide to Limited Express Trains

Travel Guide

](/link.html?/e/e2423.html+report+topstory+299+390+0+/e/e2016_limited_express.html)

[## Four spots not to miss on the Boso Peninsula

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2423.html+report+chiba+5+15+0+/ad/boso-activities/)

[## 2025 Autumn Color Reports

Travel Report

](/link.html?/e/e2423.html+report+topstory+298+389+0+/blog/koyo25/)

[## 14 years after the tsunami

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2423.html+report+topstory+297+388+0+/blog/recovery/251028.html)

[## A visit to Legoland Resort Nagoya

Traveling with Kids

](/link.html?/e/e2423.html+report+topstory+291+381+0+/blog/traveling-with-kids/250701.html)

[## The Basics about Overtourism in Japan

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2423.html+report+topstory+255+338+0+/news/overtourism.html)

[## Tokyo to Osaka, But Not the Usual Way

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2423.html+report+jrkintetsu+1+11+0+/ad/jr-kintetsu-pearl-route/)

[## Ultimate Guide to Limited Express Trains

Travel Guide

](/link.html?/e/e2423.html+report+topstory+299+390+0+/e/e2016_limited_express.html)

[## Four spots not to miss on the Boso Peninsula

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2423.html+report+chiba+5+15+0+/ad/boso-activities/)

[## 2025 Autumn Color Reports

Travel Report

](/link.html?/e/e2423.html+report+topstory+298+389+0+/blog/koyo25/)

[## 14 years after the tsunami

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2423.html+report+topstory+297+388+0+/blog/recovery/251028.html)

[## A visit to Legoland Resort Nagoya

Traveling with Kids

](/link.html?/e/e2423.html+report+topstory+291+381+0+/blog/traveling-with-kids/250701.html)