---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2071.html
title: Japanese Convenience Stores
description: Basic introduction to Japanese convenience stores.
keywords: japan, convenience, store, stores, conbini, konbini, kombini
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 443
char_count: 3465
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:46:43
---

More than 50,000 convenience stores, known as konbini, can be found across Japan. Strong competition between the major operators, such as Seven Eleven, Family Mart and Lawson, constantly produces new innovative products and services and makes Japanese convenience stores truly convenient. Most convenience stores are open 24 hours a day and 7 days a week.

### Goods offered

Convenience stores primarily sell food, including a large range of meals, snacks and sweets, such as [onigiri](e2043.html#onigiri) (rice balls), sandwiches, bread, chips, candy, obento (lunch boxes), instant [ramen](e2042.html), microwave meals and hot foods like fried chicken, nikuman and [oden](e2315.html?oden). Dishes, such as onigiri, can also be heated up in the store.

All kinds of hot and cold beverages, including coffee, [tea](e2041.html), water, soda, sport drinks, juice, milk and vitamin drinks are also sold. The selection changes frequently and often varies by season. Most convenience stores also sell [alcoholic beverages](e2037.html), including [beer](e2037_beer.html), [sake](e2037_sake.html), shochu and wine.

Other goods available include body care products, cosmetics, batteries, umbrellas, magazines and [manga](e2070.html). Some stores, particularly outside of the city centers, have a [toilet](e2003.html).

### Services offered

Convenience stores also offer a wide range of services, many of which can be accessed through automated multi-purpose terminals:

* **Multi-purpose terminals:** Tickets for sport events, concerts, [theme parks](e2067.html), [highway buses](e2366.html) and other travel services can be purchased at the multi-purpose terminal which often also serve as copy machine and fax. Unfortunately, most terminals have no or only very limited English user interfaces.
* **ATM:** [ATMs](e2208.html) offer cash withdrawl and other [banking](e2226.html) services. Foreign credit and debit cards are accepted by ATMs at an increasing number of convenience stores. All ATMs at 7-Eleven stores accept foreign cards.
* **Wi-Fi:** Many stores maintain a [Wi-Fi](e2279.html) network that can be used for free.
* **Bill payment:** Many bills, including [utility](e2207.html), [cell phone](e2223.html) and insurance bills, can be paid at convenience stores.
* **Delivery services:** At many stores, it is possible to drop off or pick up deliveries ([takuhaibin](e2278.html)), such as parcels or [luggage](e2274.html). A limited range of [postal services](e2224.html), such as the sale of post cards and stamps, is also available.

Below is a sample layout of a typical Japanese convenience store: