---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2262.html
title: Skiing and snowboarding in Japan
description: Beginner's guide to Japan's winter resorts and skiing and snowboarding in Japan.
keywords: japan, ski, skiing, snowboard, winter, snow, sport, sports, resort, resorts
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 435
char_count: 3296
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:42:42
---

Japan is a world-class ski and snowboard destination with abundant, high-quality snow, beautiful scenery and relaxing [hot springs](e2292.html). There are hundreds of ski resorts across Japan from the northern island of [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html) to the southern island of [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html), which vary in size from large resorts with dozens of runs to small one-lift slopes. The best resorts and snow conditions are found in northern Japan ([Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html) and [Tohoku](/list/e1102.html)) and in the mountains along the Sea of Japan coast (especially [Niigata](/list/e1207.html) and [Nagano](/list/e1216.html)).

While there are no ski resorts within the borders of metropolitan [Tokyo](e2164.html), it is feasible to go skiing or snowboarding in a daytrip from Tokyo. Some of the most easily accessible and most popular resorts for daytrips are located in the [Yuzawa](e7690.html) region of [Niigata Prefecture](/list/e1207.html), which can be reached in under 90 minutes by [shinkansen](e2018.html). There are also a couple of small resorts on [Mount Fuji](e2172.html).

For those who are interested in experiencing [snow](e2265.html), but who do not want to ski or snowboard, most resorts have play zones designed for families with small children. Often, they do not require paid admission, except for activities such as sledding and snow tubing. For information on other places to see snow, see our page on [where to find snow](e2265.html).

* [](/e/e6720.html)

  1

  [Niseko•](/e/e6720.html)

  Leading snow resort with lots of powder snow.

  4.1

  

  375
* [](/e/e6026.html)

  2

  Ski Resort

  [Shiga Kogen Resort•](/e/e6026.html)

  The largest ski resort in the country.

  4.0

  

  70
* [](/e/e7927.html)

  3

  Ski Resort

  [Zao Ski Resort•](/e/e7927.html)

  Leading ski resort featuring snow monsters.

  4.0

  

  259
* [](/e/e6830.html)

  4

  Ski Resort

  [Furano Ski Resort•](/e/e6830.html)

  One of Hokkaido's best ski resorts.

  3.9

  

  125
* [](/destinations/nozawa-onsen/nozawa-ski-resort.html)

  5

  Ski Resort

  [Nozawa Ski Resort•](/destinations/nozawa-onsen/nozawa-ski-resort.html)

  Outstanding ski resort above the onsen town.

  3.8

  

  160
* [](/e/e6090.html)

  6

  [Hakuba•](/e/e6090.html)

  One of Japan's best ski resorts.

  3.7

  

  660
* [](/e/e7690.html)

  7

  [Yuzawa•](/e/e7690.html)

  One of Japan's leading ski resort towns.

  3.7

  

  346
* [](/e/e5095.html)

  8

  [Appi Kogen•](/e/e5095.html)

  Leading ski resort in the Tohoku Region.

  3.5

  

  39
* [](/e/e5318.html)

  9

  Ski Resort

  [Teine Ski Resort](/e/e5318.html)

  Attractive ski resort just outside the city center.

  3.7

  

  48
* [](/e/e7753.html)

  10

  Ski Resort

  [Bandai Ski Resorts](/e/e7753.html)

  Several ski resorts around Mount Bandai.

  3.5

  

  42
* [](/e/e6715.html)

  11

  [Rusutsu](/e/e6715.html)

  Attractive ski resort near Niseko.

  3.4

  

  146
* [](/e/e7407.html)

  12

  Ski Resort

  [Kusatsu Ski Resort](/e/e7407.html)

  A relatively small resort above the onsen town.

  3.4

  

  77
* [](/e/e6931.html)

  13

  Ski Resort

  [Fujiten Snow Resort](/e/e6931.html)

  Small snow resort at the base of Mount Fuji.

  3.3

  

  40
* [](/e/e6845.html)

  14

  [Tomamu](/e/e6845.html)

  Large ski resort in central Hokkaido.

  3.3

  

  58
* [](/e/e6932.html)

  15

  Ski Resort

  [Snow Town Yeti](/e/e6932.html)

  Small ski resort on the south of Mount Fuji.

  22
* [](/e/e7642.html)

  16

  [Myoko](/e/e7642.html)

  Volcano with multiple ski areas along its slopes

  10
* [](/e/e5319.html)

  17

  Ski Resort

  [Sapporo Kokusai](/e/e5319.html)

  Ski resort in the mountains outside Sapporo.

  8
* [](/e/e6716.html)

  18

  Ski Resort

  [Kiroro Ski Resort](/e/e6716.html)

  Ski resort between Sapporo and Niseko.

  4