---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2363.html
title: Tokyo to Kyoto\: How to get to and around Kyoto
description: Orientation and transportation in Kyoto.
keywords: kyoto, get to, travel, shinkansen, bus, plane, cheapest, fastest, route, orientation, transportation, access
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 4908
char_count: 34035
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:44:39
---

From/To:

TokyoKansai AirportOsakaKobeNaraNagoyaItami Airport

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

[Tokyo](e2164.html) and [Kyoto](e2158.html) are connected with each other by the [JR Tokaido Shinkansen](e2018_tokaido.html). Nozomi trains require about 140 minutes to reach Kyoto from Tokyo, Hikari trains about 160 minutes and Kodama trains about four hours.

The regular one way fare from Tokyo to Kyoto is 13,320 yen for a non-reserved seat or around 14,000 yen for a reserved seat. The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) is valid on Hikari and Kodama trains, but requires a supplement fee of 4,960 yen on Nozomi trains.

The [Tokyo-Osaka Hokuriku Arch Pass](e2361_arch.html) is a [rail pass](e2357.html) that allows holders to travel between Tokyo and Kyoto via [Kanazawa](e2167.html), using the [Hokuriku Shinkansen](e2018_nagano.html). It is not the fastest way to travel between Tokyo and Kyoto, but it allows pass holders to visit the less-explored Hokuriku Region along the way. It costs 30,000 yen and is valid for seven consecutive days.

[Book Now](/rail.html?origin=Tokyo&destination=Kyoto)

The one way trip from Tokyo to Kyoto by [highway bus](e2366.html) takes about 7-8 hours. There are daytime and overnight buses. Fierce competition on the Tokyo-Kyoto-Osaka route has produced a wide variety of comfort levels (from discount to super premium buses) and an abundance of low priced offers.

Typical one way fares for discount buses, such as [Willer Express](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/kyoto/all/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184), start from around 4000 yen; while premium buses charge up to 10,000 yen. Online reservations can be made through [Willer](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/kyoto/all/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184) and [Japan Bus Online](https://japanbusonline.com/en/AreaSearch2/3130000/5261009/?afcd=MDI=).

[Book Now](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/kyoto/all/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184)

The closest airport to [Kyoto](e2158.html) is [Osaka](e2157.html)'s [Itami Airport](e2433.html), about one hour by bus from central Kyoto ([more details](e2433.html?aFROM=2158_2433)). Most flights connect Itami Airport with [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s [Haneda Airport](e2430.html), with just a few serving Tokyo's [Narita Airport](e2027.html). Flight duration is one hour. The regular one way fare is around 33,000 yen, but [discount tickets](e2364.html) are usually available for around 12,000 to 15,000 yen.

Airfares from Tokyo to Osaka over the next 30 days

December 23, 2025 - January 21, 2026

| Airline | Lowest fare | Average lowest fare |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [ANA](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=OSA&outboundDate=2026-01-21&airlines=NH) | [10,620 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=OSA&outboundDate=2026-01-21&airlines=NH) | [15,365 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=OSA&outboundDate=2026-01-21&airlines=NH) |
| [JAL](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=OSA&outboundDate=2026-01-19&airlines=JL) | [12,120 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=OSA&outboundDate=2026-01-19&airlines=JL) | [13,911 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=OSA&outboundDate=2026-01-19&airlines=JL) |
| [ANA Wings](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=OSA&outboundDate=2026-01-18&airlines=NH) | [11,370 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=OSA&outboundDate=2026-01-18&airlines=NH) | [15,322 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=OSA&outboundDate=2026-01-18&airlines=NH) |
| [Skymark](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=OSA&outboundDate=2026-01-07&airlines=BC) | [7,810 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=OSA&outboundDate=2026-01-07&airlines=BC) | [11,336 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=OSA&outboundDate=2026-01-07&airlines=BC) |
| [Starflyer](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=OSA&outboundDate=2026-01-11&airlines=7G) | [9,710 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=OSA&outboundDate=2026-01-11&airlines=7G) | [13,300 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=OSA&outboundDate=2026-01-11&airlines=7G) |
| [Jetstar Japan](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=OSA&outboundDate=2026-01-19&airlines=JQ) | [4,870 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=OSA&outboundDate=2026-01-19&airlines=JQ) | [8,940 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=OSA&outboundDate=2026-01-19&airlines=JQ) |
| [Peach](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=OSA&outboundDate=2026-01-16&airlines=MM) | [5,404 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=OSA&outboundDate=2026-01-16&airlines=MM) | [8,417 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=OSA&outboundDate=2026-01-16&airlines=MM) |

[Book Now](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&locale=en-GB&origin=TYO&destination=OSA&outboundDate=2026-01-13)

[Driving](e2024.html) between Tokyo and Kyoto via the Tomei and Meishin Expressways takes about five to six hours without breaks and traffic jams. The [expressway](e2354.html) toll is around 10,000 yen one way.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

[Kyoto](e2158.html) features a rectangular street system. Unlike the streets in other Japanese cities, most of central Kyoto's streets are named. The main streets running from east to west are numbered in ascending order from north to south, and are about 500 meters apart from each other, with several smaller streets in between. For example, Shijo means "4th Avenue" and Nijo means "2nd Avenue".

Kyoto's city center with the highest concentration of dining, shopping and entertainment opportunities, is located around the junction of Shijo-dori (4th Avenue) and Kawaramachi-dori (Kawaramachi Street). [JR Kyoto Station](e3922.html) is located south of the city center at the height of Hachijo-dori (8th Avenue).

The most prominent north-south street is Karasuma-dori (Karasuma Street), which runs from [Kyoto Station](e3922.html) via the city center to [Kyoto Imperial Palace](e3917.html). Another north-south axis is Kamo River, about one kilometer east of Karasuma-dori.

Kyoto has a rather inadequately developed public transportation system for a city of its size, consisting of two subway lines, a dense bus network and several railway companies, whose lines are not always conveniently connected with each other. [Taxis](e2021.html) and [bicycles](e2210.html) can be worthwhile alternatives.

The recommended way to get around Kyoto by public transportation is to use an [IC card](e2359_003.html), such as Icoca, which is accepted on virtually all trains and buses in the city. Alternatively, travelers intending to use buses or subways extensively, should consider one of the 1-day passes available. See the [ticket section below](#ticket) for more details.

Below is a simplified map of the railway and subway lines of Kyoto:

#### Bus

Few of [Kyoto](e2158.html)'s tourist attractions are located close to subway or train stations. Instead, Kyoto has a dense [bus](e2015.html) network with direct bus lines from [Kyoto Station](e3922.html) and/or the city center around Shijo-dori and Kawaramachi-dori to most major sights.

Kyoto is served by multiple bus companies. For central Kyoto, the green **Kyoto City Bus** buses are most numerous and useful. The red buses by **Kyoto Bus** are second most prominent and tend to be convenient to access sights in more outlying areas of the city.

The tourist offices provide a useful English network map for the Kyoto City Buses, which makes it quite easy for foreign visitors to access tourist attractions by bus. Despite the good map and English displays and announcements, however, getting off at the correct bus stop can still be stressful, especially in crowded buses.

Because buses are small and operate surprisingly infrequently even on some major routes, buses to major tourist sights can often get crowded, especially on weekends. In addition, much time can be lost when buses get stuck in the busy street traffic. Consequently, it is recommended to use subways and trains as much as possible, and use buses only for shorter distances, for example, from the closest subway station to the destination.

Large pieces of [luggage](e2274.html) should not be brought onto city buses. Use [taxis](e2015.html) and [delivery services](e2274.html#delivery) instead when you need to travel with larger suitcases.

Most buses are entered through the back door and left through the front door. The fare has to be paid when leaving the bus. Inside much of central Kyoto, there is a flat rate of 230 yen per ride. Outside the flat fare zone, the fare increases with the distance. [Click here](e2015.html) for more information on riding buses.

Kyoto City Bus (left) and Kyoto Bus (right)

#### Subway

There are two subway lines in [Kyoto](e2158.html), the Karasuma Line which runs from south to north along Karasuma-dori and stops at JR Kyoto Station, and the newer Tozai Line which runs from east to west and meets the Karasuma Line at the intersection of Karasuma-dori and Oike-dori.

#### Japan Railways

All JR lines, including the [Tokaido Shinkansen](e2018_tokaido.html), pass through or commence at [JR Kyoto Station](e3922.html). JR trains can be a convenient for accessing the [Arashiyama](e3912.html) area (JR Sagano Line) and some attractions in southern Kyoto along the JR Nara Line, e.g. [Fushimi Inari Shrine](e3915.html) and [Uji](e3975.html).

#### Other Railways

* **Hankyu Railway** connects [Kyoto](e2158.html) with [Osaka](e2157.html). The line initially runs below Shijo Avenue from Kawaramachi westwards in direction of Osaka. It is a good option for accessing the area around [Katsura Rikyu](e3914.html), from where a branch line also connects to [Arashiyama](e3912.html).

* **Keifuku Railway** (also known as Randen) operates two tram-like train lines in northwestern Kyoto. For train lovers, a ride on these trains is a small attraction by itself. The lines can be an option for accessing [Arashiyama](e3912.html) and the area around [Ryoanji](e3909.html) and [Kinkakuji](e3908.html).

* **Keihan Railway**'s main line runs next and parallel to Kamo River, but unfortunately does not connect to [Kyoto Station](e3922.html). The line continues to Osaka and is an alternative to the JR Nara Line to access some of the attractions in southern Kyoto.

* **Eizan Railway** operates two train lines from where the Keihan Line ends, Demachiyanagi Station. One line leads to [Kurama](e3933.html), while the other runs to the base of [Hieizan](e3911.html).

* **Kintetsu Railway** connects [Kyoto Station](e3922.html) to [Nara](e2165.html). Note that some trains on the Karasuma Subway Line continue to run on the Kintetsu Nara Line and the other way around.

#### By sightseeing bus

The Sky Hop Bus is an expensive but convenient way to visit Kyoto's most famous sightseeing spots. Double-decker buses with an open-air second floor run on three different courses from [Kyoto Station](e3922.html) around the city, stopping near major tourist sites along the way. A 1-day pass costs 4300 yen and a 2-day pass costs 6500 yen and can be purchased through [Klook](https://www.klook.com/activity/23127-skybus-hop-on-hop-off-sightseeing-bus-kyoto/?aid=12675).

#### Taxis

Kyoto is probably the Japanese city with the highest concentration of [taxis](e2021.html). Especially in the city center, taxis are found everywhere. Taxis can not only be a more comfortable, but also an economical alternative to buses on short to medium distances for groups of three or more.

Most [taxis](e2021.html) accommodate up to four passengers (not including the driver), while larger vehicles are able to accommodate an additional fifth passenger. The rate starts around 500 [yen](e2196.html) for the first kilometer and increases by 100 yen for every additional 250-300 meters traveled.

#### Bicycles

Kyoto City's simple layout and flat terrain make it easy and convenient to explore by [bicycle](e2210.html). Numerous [bicycle rental](e2210.html) outlets can be found around the city, especially around major stations, such as [Kyoto Station](e3922.html) or in popular biking areas like [Arashiyama](e3912.html). Typical rental prices are around 1000-1500 yen per day for basic bicycles and around 1700-2500 yen for electric assist bicycles. Some lodgings may provide their guests with bicycles for a small fee or for free.

Kyoto is generally a bicycle-friendly city with relatively easily navigable roads and a handful of cycling routes, most notably along Kamo River. Designated bicycle parking is often freely available around popular sightseeing spots. The situation is a little bit more challenging in the city center due to congested roads, crowded sidewalks and a lack of designated parking areas. Also, distances to some of the more outlying sightseeing spots should not be underestimated. For example, it is about eight kilometers (typically a 45-75 minute ride) from Kyoto Station to [Kinkakuji](e3908.html) or about ten kilometers to [Arashiyama](e3912.html).

See also our separate page about the various [passes available for the Kansai Region](e2357_kansai.html).

The prepaid [IC card](e2359_003.html) available in [Kyoto](e2158.html) is called **Icoca**. It does not give you any discounts over regular tickets, but it makes the process of [taking trains](e2016.html) and [buses](e2015.html) easier, as you do not always need to buy a ticket for each ride. Icoca cards can be purchased through ticket machines at JR stations. Local non-JR railway companies offer their own IC card called **Pitapa**; however, Pitapa is a postpaid card that works more like a credit card and is targeted at residents.

Icoca and Pitapa can be used on virtually all trains and buses in and around Kyoto (and most [other major cities](e2359_003.html) in Japan). Additionally, [eight other IC cards](e2359_003.html) from other major cities of Japan can also be used on the trains and buses of Greater Osaka and Kyoto, including Suica, Pasmo, Kitaca, Toica, Manaca, Sugoca, Nimoca and Hayakaken.

The **Kansai One Pass** is a special version of Icoca exclusively for foreign tourists that additionally qualifies for discounts at various attractions in the [Kansai Region](/list/e1105.html). It is available for sale at [Kansai Airport](e2033.html) and major railway stations in the Kansai Region.

Furthermore, the following **one day passes** are available for [Kyoto](e2158.html):

* **Kyoto Sightseeing Card** (1100 yen)
    
  Unlimited use of Kyoto's two subway lines and most buses (including Kyoto City Buses, Kyoto Buses, JR buses and Keihan buses) in central [Kyoto](e2158.html) and outskirts, including [Ohara](e3932.html) and [Daigoji](e3916.html) on one calendar day. The pass also comes with discount coupons for selected sights in Kyoto. It can be purchased from ticket machines in subway stations, at bus ticket centers and from some hotels. The pass can pay off especially if you visit outlying areas such as [Ohara](e3932.html). The downside is that, besides the subway lines, the pass does not cover any other trains which are often a convenient means of getting around.
* **Kyoto Subway One Day Card** (800 yen)
    
  Unlimited use of Kyoto's two subway lines on one calendar day. The card can be purchased from ticket machines at subway stations. It generally pays off if you use subways more than three times per day, however its value is restricted by the subway's limited coverage area.