---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2034.html
title: International Air Travel\: Flying to Japan
description: Beginner's guide to flying to Japan\: airlines, airports and airfares.
keywords: japan, flying, fly, ticket, airfare, airline, airport, airports, airfares, airlines, tickets
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 676
char_count: 5125
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:44:56
---

This page is about international air travel to Japan. See also our other pages about [domestic air travel in Japan](e2365.html) and [discount air tickets](e2364.html) for more information.

### Airfare

The following are ways to save on airfare to Japan:

* Fly outside the peak seasons! Peak seasons include [Golden Week](e2282.html) (end of April through the beginning of May), the summer holidays (July and August), the [New Year](e2276.html) holidays, and peak seasons applying to your country of departure. Also, flights on weekends tend to be more expensive than flights during the week.
* Check travel agents, newspapers, travel websites and the airlines' websites for special offers. Many airlines have a "special offers" section on their website.
* If an option, consider using low-cost carriers, such as AirAsia, Jetstar or Zipair, which are serving Japan from various destinations, especially in East Asia and Australia.
* For many routes, direct flights tend to be considerably more expensive than indirect ones that require a transfer along the way.
* If your city has a sizable Japanese community, chances are that a large Japanese travel agency, such as HIS, operates a branch there. Check them out, as they tend to be well informed about offers on flights to Japan and often have access to the lowest fares.
* Consider [tour packages](e2275.html). Good packages combine airfare and accommodation at low rates, unavailable to individual consumers. There are tour packages for both individual travelers and those preferring to travel with a guide.
* Use an airline's mileage program, also known as frequent flyer program. In the ideal program 1) collected miles don't expire, 2) miles can also be earned and used on flights of partner airlines, 3) miles can be shared among family members and 4) there are alternative ways to collect miles, e.g. through the use of a credit card.
* Keep domestic transportation in mind when booking your international tickets. An open-jaw ticket with which you enter Japan through one airport and leave through another (e.g. [Narita](e2027.html) and [Kansai](e2033.html) airports), can save you from costly backtracking across Japan. Some airlines also offer discount fares on domestic routes if booked in combination with an international flight. Visit our [discount air tickets](e2364.html) page for more details.

### Airlines and airports

Nearly all major airlines and airports offer flights to Japan. The country's own two leading airlines, Japan Airlines (JAL) and All Nippon Airways (ANA), both serve a broad range of international destinations.

By far Japan's most important international airports are [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s [Narita](e2027.html) and [Haneda](e2430.html) airports and [Osaka](e2157.html)'s [Kansai Airport](e2033.html). Many other Japanese airports also have some international flights, mainly to Korea and China, including [Fukuoka Airport](e2436.html), [Nagoya](e2155.html)'s [Central Japan Airport](e2431.html), Naha Airport in [Okinawa](/list/e1247.html) and [Sapporo](e2163.html)'s [New Chitose Airport](e2435.html).


[## The Basics about Overtourism in Japan

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2034.html+report+topstory+255+338+0+/news/overtourism.html)

[## Tokyo to Osaka, But Not the Usual Way

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2034.html+report+jrkintetsu+1+11+0+/ad/jr-kintetsu-pearl-route/)

[## Ultimate Guide to Limited Express Trains

Travel Guide

](/link.html?/e/e2034.html+report+topstory+299+390+0+/e/e2016_limited_express.html)

[## Four spots not to miss on the Boso Peninsula

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2034.html+report+chiba+5+15+0+/ad/boso-activities/)

[## 2025 Autumn Color Reports

Travel Report

](/link.html?/e/e2034.html+report+topstory+298+389+0+/blog/koyo25/)

[## 14 years after the tsunami

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2034.html+report+topstory+297+388+0+/blog/recovery/251028.html)

[## A visit to Legoland Resort Nagoya

Traveling with Kids

](/link.html?/e/e2034.html+report+topstory+291+381+0+/blog/traveling-with-kids/250701.html)

[More Stories](/news/s_transport/)

Plan Your Trip:[Transportation](/e/e627.html)

* [Tickets & Passes](/e/e2357.html)
* [Rail Pass Calculator](/railpass/)
* [Trains](/e/e2019.html)

+ [Shinkansen](/e/e2018.html)

- [Tokaido Shinkansen](/e/e2018_tokaido.html)
- [Sanyo Shinkansen](/e/e2018_sanyo.html)
- [Kyushu Shinkansen](/e/e2018_kyushu.html)
- [Nishikyushu Shinkansen](/e/e2018_nishikyushu.html)
- [Tohoku Shinkansen](/e/e2018_tohoku.html)
- [Hokkaido Shinkansen](/e/e2018_hokkaido.html)
- [Joetsu Shinkansen](/e/e2018_joetsu.html)
- [Hokuriku Shinkansen](/e/e2018_nagano.html)

+ [Limited Express Trains](/e/e2016_limited_express.html)
+ [Rail Passes & Tickets](/e/e2359.html)

- [Regular Train Tickets](/e/e2359_001.html)
- [IC cards](/e/e2359_003.html)
- [Rail Passes](/e/e2357.html)
- [Japan Rail Pass (JR Pass)](/e/e2361.html)
- [Railpass Calculator](/railpass/)
- [Seishun 18 Kippu](/e/e2362.html)
- [JR Hokkaido Rail Pass](/e/e2361_01.html)
- [JR Sapporo-Noboribetsu Area Pass](/e/e2361_noboribetsu.html)
- [JR Sapporo-Furano Area Pass](/e/e2361_furano.html)
- [JR Tohoku South Hokkaido Rail Pass](/e/e2361_tohoku_hokkaido.html)
- [JR East South Hokkaido Rail Pass](/e/e2361_southhokkaido.html)
- [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](/e/e2361_tohoku.html)
- [Sendai Area Pass](/e/e2361_sendai.html)
- [JR East Nagano Niigata Area Pass](/e/e2361_nagano_niigata.html)
- [JR Tokyo Wide Pass](/e/e2361_06.html)
- [Mt.Fuji Shizuoka Area Tourist Pass](/e/e2361_fuji_shizuoka.html)
- [Hokuriku Arch Pass](/e/e2361_arch.html)
- [Takayama Hokuriku Tourist Pass](/e/e2361_takayama_hokuriku.html)
- [Alpine Takayama Matsumoto Tourist Pass](/e/e2361_alpen.html)
- [JR Hokuriku Area Pass](/e/e2361_hokuriku.html)
- [JR Kansai Hokuriku Area Pass](/e/e2361_kansai_hokuriku.html)
- [Ise Kumano Wakayama Area Tourist Pass](/e/e2361_ise_kumano.html)
- [Kansai Passes](/e/e2357_kansai.html)
- [JR West One-Way Tickets](/e/e2361_jrwest.html)
- [Kansai Railway Pass](/e/e2357_005.html)
- [JR Kansai Mini Pass](/e/e2361_kansai_mini.html)
- [JR Kansai Area Pass](/e/e2361_03.html)
- [JR Kansai Wide Area Pass](/e/e2361_08.html)
- [Kintetsu Rail Pass](/e/e2357_006.html)
- [JR West All Area Pass](/e/e2361_west.html)
- [JR Kansai Hiroshima Area Pass](/e/e2361_kansai_hiroshima.html)
- [JR Setouchi Area Pass](/e/e2361_setouchi.html)
- [JR Sanyo Sanin Area Pass](/e/e2361_sanyo_sanin.html)
- [JR Sanyo Sanin Northern Kyushu Pass](/e/e2361_sanyo_sanin_kyushu.html)
- [JR Kansai Sanin Pass](/e/e2361_sanin.html)
- [Tottori Matsue Pass](/e/e2361_tottori_matsue.html)
- [JR Hiroshima Yamaguchi Area Pass](/e/e2361_hiroshima_yamaguchi.html)
- [JR Okayama Hiroshima Yamaguchi Area Pass](/e/e2361_okayama_yamaguchi.html)
- [All Shikoku Pass](/e/e2357_shikoku.html)
- [JR Kyushu Rail Pass](/e/e2361_05.html)
- [JR Fukuoka Wide Pass](/e/e2361_fukuoka.html)

+ [Night Trains](/e/e2356.html)
+ [How to use trains](/e/e2016.html)
+ [Train Timetables](/e/e2323.html)
+ [Rush Hours](/e/e2020.html)

* [Flights](/planning/transportation/flights.html)

+ [International Air Travel](/e/e2034.html)
+ [Domestic Air Travel](/e/e2365.html)
+ [Domestic Air Discounts](/e/e2364.html)

* [Buses](/planning/transportation/bus.html)

+ [Local Buses](/e/e2015.html)
+ [Highway Buses](/e/e2366.html)
+ [Sun Q Pass](/e/e2357_014.html)
+ [Timetable: Mount Fuji 5th Station](/bus/fuji.html)
+ [Timetable: Mount Fuji Climbing Season](/bus/fuji_season.html)
+ [Timetable: Gotemba-Kawaguchiko](/bus/gotemba.html)
+ [Timetable: Shirakawago](/bus/shirakawago.html)
+ [Timetable: Gokayama](/bus/gokayama.html)
+ [Timetable: Kiso Valley](/bus/kiso.html)

* [Driving](/e/e2022.html)

+ [Rental Cars](/e/e2024.html)
+ [Expressways](/e/e2354.html)

* [Taxis](/e/e2021.html)
* [Ferries](/e/e2355.html)
* [Bicycles](/e/e2210.html)

[## The Basics about Overtourism in Japan

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2034.html+report+topstory+255+338+0+/news/overtourism.html)

[## Tokyo to Osaka, But Not the Usual Way

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2034.html+report+jrkintetsu+1+11+0+/ad/jr-kintetsu-pearl-route/)

[## Ultimate Guide to Limited Express Trains

Travel Guide

](/link.html?/e/e2034.html+report+topstory+299+390+0+/e/e2016_limited_express.html)

[## Four spots not to miss on the Boso Peninsula

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2034.html+report+chiba+5+15+0+/ad/boso-activities/)

[## 2025 Autumn Color Reports

Travel Report

](/link.html?/e/e2034.html+report+topstory+298+389+0+/blog/koyo25/)

[## 14 years after the tsunami

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2034.html+report+topstory+297+388+0+/blog/recovery/251028.html)

[## A visit to Legoland Resort Nagoya

Traveling with Kids

](/link.html?/e/e2034.html+report+topstory+291+381+0+/blog/traveling-with-kids/250701.html)

[More Stories](/news/s_transport/)