---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2349.html
title: Japanese Pickles (Tsukemono)
description: Beginner's guide to tsukemono, traditional Japanese pickles.
keywords: tsukemono, pickles, japanese
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 2019
char_count: 14133
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:54:45
---

Japanese pickles (漬物, tsukemono) are an important part of the [Japanese diet](e620.html), served with practically every traditional meal alongside [rice](e2043.html) and [miso soup](e2045.html). They are valued for their unique flavors and commonly used as a garnish, relish, condiment, palate cleanser or digestive.

Tsukemono first appeared way back in [Japanese history](e641.html) in the days before refrigeration when pickling was used to preserve food. As a result, some traditionally prepared types of pickles can be kept practically indefinitely. The different methods used to make tsukemono vary from a simple salting or vinegar brining, to more complicated processes involving cultured molds and fermentation.

All kinds of [vegetables](e2346.html) and some [fruits](e2347.html) are used to make tsukemono including, but not limited to, Japanese radish (daikon), cucumber, eggplant, carrot, cabbage, water lily root, ginger, shallots and plums (ume). Sometimes [seaweed](e2310.html) and other seafood are added to pickle mixtures for flavor and variety. Some pickling methods are also used to preserve and flavor seafood and meat dishes.

A traditional pickles shop at Nishiki Market in Kyoto

Below are the some of the most popular types of pickles:

* **Salt (shiozuke)**

  Salt pickles, or shiozuke, are the simplest and most common types of pickles. The most basic consist simply of lightly salted, sliced vegetables, which result in pickles with the crisp texture and mild flavor of fresh (usually seasonal) vegetables. Heavily salted pickles, on the other hand, are more involved to prepare and have strong, complex flavors. Among these are pickled Japanese plums ([umeboshi](e2349.html#umeboshi)), which are often used to flavor [rice balls](e2043.html) (onigiri).
* **Rice bran (nukazuke)**

  Nukazuke are common household pickles fermented in a mixture of roasted rice bran (the hard outer skin of the [rice](e2043.html) that is removed when polishing the rice grain), salt, [konbu](e2310.html) and other ingredients. Whole vegetables are stirred into the mash and allowed to cure from a day to several months. The resulting crisp, salty and tangy pickles are then rinsed clean, sliced and served. Nukazuke are rich in lactobacillus and said to aid in digestion.
* **Sake lees (kasuzuke)**

  Kasuzuke are imperishable pickles preserved in a mixture of sake lees (the yeast mash that is left over after filtering [sake](e2037_sake.html)), salt, sugar and sweet cooking wine (mirin). They are allowed to cure for anywhere from several days to several years, and the resulting pickles may be slightly alcoholic with flavors that vary from sweet and mild to strong and pungent depending on how long they were cured for.
* **Soy sauce (shoyuzuke)**

  Shoyuzuke are pickles preserved in a [soy sauce](e2045.html) base. This method produces a wide range of pickles with flavors that vary from light and crispy to dark brown, salty, sweet relishes such as [fukujinzuke](e2349.html#fukujinzuke). Note that shoyuzuke is a different preservation method than [tsukudani](e3015.html), which are foods preserved by cooking in soy sauce and cooking wine (mirin).
* **Vinegar (suzuke)**

  Pickles brined in vinegar are known as suzuke. Rice vinegar is commonly used as the pickling agent and lends a crunchy texture and sweet and sour flavor to the resulting pickles. However, rice vinegar has a low acidity and suzuke pickles will not keep long unrefrigerated.
* **Miso (misozuke)**

  Similar to nukazuke, misozuke pickles are made by covering vegetables in miso, a fermented [soybean](e2045.html) mash. These types of pickles tend to be crisp with a salty miso flavor. Misozuke and nukazuke are made of similar vegetables, such as cucumbers, carrots and eggplant, and it may be difficult to tell the two types of pickles apart by just looking at them. Misozuke is also a popular way of preserving and marinating meat and fish.

### Common pickle dishes

The following are some of the more common types of tsukemono that travelers are likely to encounter. Most can be found nationwide, except where noted, however the exact ingredients of each dish may vary from region to region and household to household.

* 

  Umeboshi

  Umeboshi are Japanese [plums](e2013.html) (related to apricots), which have been salted and dried. The wrinkly red pickles are extremely salty and sour, although sweeter versions exist. Umeboshi serve as a preservative and digestive. They are eaten with all types of traditional meals, and often accompany the rice in boxed lunches (bento). Umeboshi are also one of the most popular fillings for [rice balls](e2043.html) (onigiri).
* 

  Takuan

  Takuan is made of Japanese radishes ([daikon](e2346.html#daikon)), which have been sun dried and pickled in a mixture of salt, rice bran and sugar. The finished product is a sweet, crunchy pickle that is sliced and served alongside rice or other dishes. Takuan ranges from brownish white to fluorescent yellow in color. In [Akita Prefecture](/list/e1203.html) they are additionally smoked and enjoyed as iburigakko.
* 

  Nukazuke

  Assortments of nukazuke pickles consisting of cucumber, carrots, eggplant, [daikon](e2346.html#daikon) or [turnip](e2346.html#kabu) (kabu) are often served alongside set menu meals (teishoku) or as a part of the rice set (shokuji) in [course meals](e2348.html).
* 

  Kyuri Asazuke

  Kyuri asazuke are simple pickles made of cucumbers marinated in a salt brine (shiozuke) that is sometimes seasoned with [konbu](e2310.html), togarashi pepper and/or vinegar. Whole cucumbers served on a stick are often pickled this way and sold by street vendors at festivals and popular tourist spots, especially during spring and summer when they are a refreshing treat.
* 

  Hakusai no Sokusekizuke

  Hakusai no Sokusekizuke is a quick and simple salt pickle dish made of lightly salted [hakusai](e2346.html#hakusai) cabbage which is often mixed with carrots and cucumber and seasoned with [yuzu](e2347.html#yuzu) zest, [konbu](e2310.html) and togarashi pepper. The result is a salty, crisp pickle with a slightly spicy citrus flavor. It is one of the most common pickles found in Japan.
* 

  Narazuke

  Narazuke are deep brown pickles native to the [Nara](e2165.html) Region, from which they get their name. Vegetables, typically daikon, uri or cucumber, are soaked in [sake](e2037_sake.html) lees (kasuzuke) for several years. As a result the pickles have a strong, pungent flavor which is often punctuated with an overtly alcoholic bite.
* 

  Shibazuke

  Shibazuke is a [Kyoto](e2158.html) specialty pickle made of cucumber, eggplant, perilla leaves (shiso), ginger and myoga (a mild flavored relative of ginger) pickled in plum vinegar, a byproduct of making pickled plums (umeboshi). The salty, slightly sour, purple pickles are commonly served in [Kyoto cuisine](e3963.html).
* 

  Senmaizuke

  Senmaizuke is another [Kyoto](e2158.html) specialty pickle. It is made of thin slices of [turnip](e2346.html#kabu) arranged brined in sweet vinegar seasoned with [konbu](e2310.html) and togarashi pepper. The resulting thin disks (senmaizuke means thousand layer pickle) are sweet and sour with a slightly crunchy texture.
* 

  Saikyozuke

  Saikyozuke (lit. West Kyoto pickle) are slices of fish, typically a whitefish such as cod or sablefish, which have been preserved and marinated in [miso](e2045.html) (fermented soybean) paste. The slices are then grilled or broiled, and served either hot or at room temperature. Fish preserved this way gets a sweet, caramelized flavor due to the miso.
* 

  Nozawana

  Nozawana are a specialty pickle from [Nozawa Onsen](/destinations/nozawa-onsen/) in [Nagano Prefecture](/list/e1216.html); however, they are commonly served all over Japan. Nozawana are a type of turnip greens which are dried and pickled in a salt brine seasoned with togarashi pepper and [wasabi](e2311.html). The salty, slightly spicy leaves and stems are served cut into bite-sized pieces or chopped into a fine relish.
* 

  Matsumaezuke

  Local to [Matsumae Town](e5380.html) in [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html), matsumaezuke is an interesting combination of regional specialties of Hokkaido such as squid, [konbu](e2310.html), kazunoko (herring roe) and carrots, seasoned with [sake](e2037_sake.html), [soy sauce](e2045.html) and mirin (sweet cooking wine). It has attained nationwide popularity.
* 

  Gari

  Most tourists are probably already familiar with gari, the thin slices of sweet pickled ginger that is served alongside [sushi](e2038.html). Gari has a sweet and sour flavor with a slightly spicy bite. It is meant to be eaten between sushi pieces as a palate cleanser, so that the unique flavor of each piece can be fully appreciated. Gari is naturally light yellow, but may also be dyed pink.
* 

  Beni Shoga

  Beni Shoga is julienned young ginger that has been pickled in plum vinegar (umezu), a byproduct of making pickled plums (umeboshi). The bright red, salty and spicy pickles are served as a garnish on top of a variety of dishes such as [gyudon](e2345.html), [takoyaki](e2316.html) and yakisoba.
* 

  Fukujinzuke

  Fukujinzuke is a mixture of [daikon radish](e2346.html#daikon), [lotus root](e2346.html#renkon), cucumber and eggplant preserved in a soy sauce and cooking wine (mirin) base. The sweet brown or red relish is served as a garnish to [Japanese curry](e2351.html).
* 

  Rakkyo

  Rakkyo are sweet pickled scallions that are served alongside [Japanese curry](e2351.html). Rakkyo lend a sweet, crunchy bite that, like fukujinzuke, helps to augment the spicy and salty flavors of curry.