---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2313.html
title: Japanese Spices, Sauces and Condiments
description: An introduction to spices and sauces commonly found in Japanese dishes and in Japanese restaurants.
keywords: japanese, spices, sauces, condiments, seasoning, pastes
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 1899
char_count: 13302
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:53:54
---

A wide variety of condiments are used in the [Japanese cuisine](e620.html). Below is a list of some of the common spices, pastes and sauces that tourists are likely going to encounter at [restaurants](e2040.html):

### Sauces

* 

  Shoyu (soy sauce)

  Provided at the table of virtually all restaurants

  Shoyu is the most widely used condiment in Japanese cuisine and found in or added to a large number of dishes. The fermented [soybean](e2045.html) product adds depth to a dish when cooked together or when used as a dipping sauce like for [sushi](e2038.html). There are different types of soy sauce, including light and dark ones. Soy sauce is produced across the country, and places particularly famous for the product are [Chiba Prefecture](/list/e1212.html) and [Shodoshima Island](e5434.html).
* 

  Tsuyu

  Served as soup or dipping sauce at udon, soba and tempura restaurants

  Tsuyu is a soy sauce-based condiment that contains a variety of other ingredients and is used for various dishes. The two most popular types of tsuyu are men-tsuyu, which contains seafood-based soup stock and is used in [udon](/r/e105.html), [soba](e2341.html) and somen dishes as soup or dipping sauce, and ten-tsuyu, which is used as a dipping sauce for [tempura](/r/e106.html) and contains mirin and sugar.
* 

  Ponzu

  Served as a dipping sauce at certain restaurants

  Ponzu is a sauce made with soy sauce and the juice of a citrus fruit. The tart sauce has a light, clean and savory flavor. Ponzu is usually provided as a dipping sauce for [hot pot](e2315.html) and seafood dishes, and sometimes would be mixed with grated [daikon](e2346.html) to counter oily ingredients.
* 

  Su (vinegar)

  Provided at the table of restaurants serving gyoza

  The two most common vinegars used in Japanese dishes are rice vinegar (kome-su) and mixed grain and wheat vinegar (kokumotsu-su). The former is typically the vinegar of choice when making [sushi](e2038.html) rice, while the latter has a comparatively lighter taste and is a popular choice for many recipes that call for vinegar. Vinegar is usually added to the dishes before they get served. An exception are [gyoza](/r/e107.html) whose dipping sauce is usually prepared by the customers at the table, mixing vinegar with soy sauce and rayu.
* 

  Rayu (chili oil)

  Provided at the table of restaurants serving gyoza

  Rayu is the Japanese term for chili oil, and it is often included as a table condiment at [ramen](e2042.html) and Chinese restaurants. The most common way of enjoying rayu in Japan is mixing a few drops with vinegar and/or soy sauce to create a spicy dipping sauce for [gyoza](/r/e107.html) dumplings.
* 

  Sauce

  Served as a sauce or dipping sauce at certain restaurants

  Popularly simply known as "sauce", this condiment is a dark sauce that comes in many variations, but can generally be described as Japanese-style Worcestershire sauce or to be based on it. It is used in a variety of dishes, including [korokke](/r/e101.html), [tonkatsu](e2339.html), [okonomiyaki](/r/e100.html), [takoyaki](e2316.html) and yakisoba. It is usually either poured onto the dish or used as a dipping sauce.

### Pastes

* 

  Wasabi

  Provided at restaurants serving sushi or sashimi

  [Wasabi](e2311.html), Japanese horseradish, is easily one of the best known Japanese condiments. The green root vegetable is typically grated into a paste. The spicy paste is eaten with dishes like [sushi](e2038.html), [sashimi](e2044.html) and grilled meat.
* 

  Shoga (ginger)

  Served on the side of some dishes

  Grated [ginger](e2346.html) offers a refreshing flavor with some heat. It is most commonly encountered in sushi or sashimi dishes (especially with silver-skinned fish) as an alternative for wasabi, but it is also served with [tofu](e2045_tofu.html) and other dishes.
* 

  Karashi (Japanese mustard)

  Provided at the table of certain restaurants or on the side of some dishes

  Karashi is Japanese hot mustard. It is not as spicy as wasabi, but still offers a decent spice level. The yellow, spicy paste is most commonly paired with deep fried pork cutlets ([tonkatsu](e2339.html)), [oden](e2035.html#oden) and [natto](e2045.html) (fermented soybeans).
* 

  Yuzukosho

  Served on the side of some dishes

  Yuzukosho is a slightly chunky citrus pepper paste made with [yuzu](e2347.html) peel, chili peppers and salt. It has a very fragrant and citrusy aroma thanks to the yuzu peel, while chili peppers provide the heat. Yuzukosho is more common in [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html) where the seasoning is said to have originated. Many regional Kyushu dishes include yuzukosho in their recipes, and locals enjoy the spicy paste with dishes like grilled meat, [hot pot](e2315.html), [miso](e2045.html) soup and [sashimi](e2044.html).
* 

  Mayonnaise

  Served as a topping or as a dipping sauce

  Japanese mayonnaise is virtually synonymous with the brand Kewpie, which is credited as the first company to produce mayonnaise in Japan. Mayonnaise is often served alongside deep fried foods like chicken karaage and potatoes, added on top of dishes like [okonomiyaki](/r/e100.html) and [takoyaki](e2316.html), and mixed into egg or potato salads.

### Spices

* 

  Shio (salt)

  Served with tempura and grilled meat or at the table of Western-style restaurants

  Besides being an ubiquitous ingredient in the [Japanese cuisine](e620.html), salt is also used in religious rituals for purification. Salt is rarely added to dishes by diners at the table, except in case of [tempura](/r/e106.html), which is sometimes flavored with salt instead of a dipping sauce, and for grilled meat and Western dishes. Occasionally, flavored varieties of salt may be served, for example mixed with curry spices or [powdered green tea](e2041.html). Virtually all Japanese salt is gained from the sea. There are a number of salt farms across the country, including a traditional one on the [Noto Peninsula](e4252.html) that is open to tourists.
* 

  Shichimi

  Provided at the table of many restaurants

  Shichimi, which translates to "seven flavors", is a chili spice that contains a blend of seven ingredients. The seven ingredients vary depending on brand and region, but typically include chili peppers, sesame seeds, Japanese sansho pepper, hemp seeds and citrus peel. Shichimi is both spicy and fragrant, and can be a great addition to dishes with simple flavors. Common dishes over which shichimi is sprinkled include noodle dishes like [udon](/r/e105.html) and [soba](e2341.html), pork [miso](e2045.html) soup (tonjiru) and some [donburi](e2342.html) dishes.
* 

  Ichimi

  Provided at the table of some restaurants

  Ichimi, which translates to "one flavor", is a chili spice that contains only one ingredient: chili pepper. Ichimi is used in a similar way as the above-mentioned shichimi but offers just the spiciness of the chili peppers without the fragrance of the other spices.
* 

  Katsuobushi (dried bonito flakes)

  Served as a topping on a number of Japanese dishes

  Katsuobushi are shaved bonito flakes and a fundamental ingredient in Japanese cooking. Basic Japanese soup stock (dashi), which is used in a wide variety of dishes, is made with katsuobushi and dried [kombu](e2310.html) kelp. In addition to playing a vital role in making dashi, katsuobushi are also placed on top of various dishes like cold [tofu](e2045_tofu.html), vegetable appetizers, [okonomiyaki](/r/e100.html) and [takoyaki](e2316.html).
* 

  Goma (sesame)

  Provided at the table of certain restaurants

  Goma, sesame seeds, are used in a number of Japanese recipes. While both white (shirogoma) and black (kurogoma) sesame are used, the former is by far more common. Goma can be used whole or ground up and sprinkled over stir-fried and simmered dishes. Sesame-based sauces and dressings are also popular in dishes like salads and shabu shabu.
* 

  Sansho

  Provided at restaurants serving unagi

  Sansho is a native Japanese pepper that is very aromatic and slightly spicy. The small leaves of the sansho plant are often used in [kaiseki cuisine](e2348.html), while the seeds are ground into powder. The most prevalent use of sansho is at [unagi](e2344.html) restaurants, where the powder is sprinkled over grilled eel.
* 

  Kosho (pepper)

  Provided at the table of some restaurants

  Although pepper is widely available in Japan today, it has not been a popular ingredient in traditional Japanese cooking. Pepper shakers are sometimes encountered at the table of restaurants serving Chinese or Western dishes.
* 

  Aonori

  Served as a topping for some dishes

  Aonori are fine [seaweed](e2310.html) flakes that are typically sprinkled over stir fried, deep fried or grilled food, including [okonomiyaki](/r/e100.html), [takoyaki](e2316.html) and yakisoba.