---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2361_06.html
title: JR Tokyo Wide Pass
description: About the JR Tokyo Wide Pass, a rail pass for the Kanto area around Tokyo.
keywords: JR, tokyo, wide, rail, kanto, area, pass, kanto pass
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 680
char_count: 5406
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:46:16
---

The **JR Tokyo Wide Pass** is a [rail pass](e2357.html) for exclusive use by non-Japanese passport holders, providing unlimited travel on [JR](e2019.html) trains (including [shinkansen](e2018.html) and [limited express](e2016.html#category) trains) and selected non-JR trains in the [Kanto Region](/list/e1103.html) around [Tokyo](e2164.html) on three consecutive days.

Tokyo Wide Pass

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| **3 days** | 15,000 yen |

* Reduced rates apply to children aged 6-11 (50% off); a green car version is not available.

### Validity

1. Unlimited use of [local, rapid, express, limited express](e2016.html#category) and [shinkansen](e2018.html) trains operated by [JR East](e2019.html) in the [Kanto Region](/list/e1103.html) as well as parts of [Nagano](/list/e1216.html), [Niigata](/list/e1207.html), [Yamanashi](/list/e1217.html) and [Shizuoka](/list/e1218.html) prefectures.
2. Unlimited use of the following non-JR trains (local, rapid, express and limited express):
   * Fujikyu Railway to the [Fuji Five Lakes](e6900.html)
   * Izukyu Railway on the [Izu Peninsula](e6310.html)
   * Direct JR/Tobu limited express trains between [Shinjuku](e3011.html), [Nikko](e3800.html) and [Kinugawa](e3875.html)
   * Tobu Railway between [Nikko](e3800.html) and [Kinugawa Onsen](e3875.html)
   * Joshin Railway to the [Tomioka Silk Mill](e7417.html) in [Gunma Prefecture](/list/e1209.html)
   * Tokyo Monorail to [Haneda Airport](e2430.html)
   * Saitama New Shuttle between Omiya and the [Railway Museum](e6527.html)
   * [Rinkai Line](e2373.html) in central Tokyo
3. The pass is not valid on the [Tokaido Shinkansen](e2018_tokaido.html) (which is not operated by JR East). A supplement fee has to be paid on Hayabusa and Komachi trains along the [Tohoku Shinkansen](e2018_tohoku.html) and when riding the observation car of limited express trains by Fujikyu Railway.
4. Seat reservations can be made for free (see details [below](#seat)).
5. The pass is valid on three consecutive calendar days (midnight to midnight).
6. Only holders of a non-Japanese passport can use the JR Tokyo Wide Pass, including foreign residents of Japan.
7. During the [ski season](e2262.html), pass holders can profit from discounted offers for lift tickets, ski rental and [onsen](e2292.html) admission at the [Gala Yuzawa](e7690.html) resort.

### Points of sale

The JR Tokyo Wide Pass is sold at selected major stations in the Tokyo area, including [Narita Airport](e2027.html), [Haneda Airport](e2430.html), [Tokyo Station](e3037.html), [Shinagawa Station](e3040.html), [Shinjuku Station](e3011.html), [Shibuya Station](e3007.html), [Yokohama Station](e2156.html) and [Mito Station](e6200.html). It can also be purchased at the [official JR East website](https://www.jreast.co.jp/multi/en/), but the actual pass has still to be picked up at a station in Japan before use.

### Seat reservations

Free seat reservations can be made at seat reservation ticket machines and at JR ticket offices. It is also possible to make online seat reservations on the [JR East Train Reservation website](https://www.eki-net.com/en/jreast-train-reservation/Top/Index); however, physical seat reservation tickets have to be picked up at a selected ticket machine or office before use.

### Assessment

The JR Tokyo Wide Pass can be a good value, and is particularly useful for travelers who plan to make multiple side trips from [Tokyo](e2164.html) to popular destinations, such as [Nikko](e3800.html), the [Fuji Five Lakes](e6900.html), the [Izu Peninsula](e6310.html), [Karuizawa](e6030.html) or the [onsen](e2292.html) towns of [Gunma Prefecture](/list/e1209.html). Below are the approximate round trip fares for popular side trips, illustrating that the pass can pay off:

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| [To Nikko](e3805.html) | 3,000 yen (by Tobu Railway), 10,500 yen (by shinkansen) |
| [To the Fuji Five Lakes](e6905.html) | 4,500 yen (by bus), 7,500 yen (by limited express train) |
| [To Shimoda](e6305.html) | 12,000 yen (by limited express train) |
| [To Kusatsu Onsen](e7403.html) | 12,000 yen (by limited express train) |
| [To Karuizawa](e6030.html) | 11,500 yen (by shinkansen) |
| [To Kamakura](e3115.html) | 2,000 yen |