---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2359_001.html
title: Japanese regular train tickets
description: Introduction to regular Japanese train tickets.
keywords: japan, japanese, train, railway, ticket, tickets, limited, express, fee, fare, green, car
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 1036
char_count: 7027
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:46:22
---

Below is an introduction to regular point-to-point train tickets by [Japan Railways (JR)](e2019.html). Note, that other railway companies may use slightly different rules and fares. Also, check our page about [how to use trains](e2016.html#category), if you are not familiar with Japanese trains.

### Ticket cost

Below are the various fares and fees, which make up a regular JR [train ticket](e2359.html):

#### Base fare (jōsha ryōkin)

This is the basic cost to get from A to B, which applies to all regular train tickets. The basic fare depends on the travel distance between your departure and destination station. The cost per kilometer is around 20 yen for short distances, and decreases to under 10 yen for longer trips.

#### Limited express fee (tokkyū ryōkin)

This is a supplement fee which has to be paid in addition to the base fare, if you use [shinkansen](e2018.html) (bullet trains) or [tokkyu](e2016.html#category) (limited express trains). The limited express fee also depends on the distance traveled and on the train. Limited express fees for shinkansen range from around 800 yen for short distances to around 11,000 yen for long distances. For tokkyu, they range from around 500 to around 4,000 yen.

#### Green car fee (gurīn ryōkin)

This is a supplement fee which has to be paid, if you use a green car, i.e. business class seat. The green car supplement is between 500 yen for short distances and 8,000 yen for long distances.

#### Seat reservation fee (shiteiseki ryōkin)

This is a supplement fee which has to be paid, if you use a reserved rather than a non-reserved seat. In some parts of Japan, the cost of a seat reservation depends on the [season](e2273.html). It is typically 530 yen during the regular season and can be a few hundred yen lower or higher during low and high seasons respectively. Seat reservations can be made, starting one month in advance of the departure date.

#### Night train berth fee (shindai ryōkin)

This is a supplement fee which has to be paid, if you use a berth or private compartment on a [night train](e2356.html). There are several categories of berths and compartments, ranging in cost from around 6,600 to around 14,000 yen. Please visit our [night train page](e2356.html) for more details.

#### Entering the station ticket (nyūjōken)

If you want to pass the ticket gates of a station without taking a train, for example, to wait for somebody on the platform or to get to the other side of a large station complex, you have to purchase this type of ticket. Depending on the [region of Japan](/list/e1001.html), it costs between 140 and 200 yen, which corresponds to the price of the cheapest train ticket available.

### Validity

The duration of validity of a base fare ticket depends on the travel distance covered by it. Tickets for 100 kilometers or less are valid on one calendar day. Tickets from 100 to 200 kilometers are valid on two consecutive days. After that, the duration of validity increases by one day for every additional 200 kilometers traveled.

Stop-overs, i.e. getting off at a station (and passing the gates) between your departure and destination station, are not possible with a ticket that covers 100 kilometers or less; but it is possible with tickets that cover more than 100 kilometers. Backtracking is not allowed.

Supplement fees, such as limited express and green car fees apply only to continuous trips. If you make a stop-over, you have to pay supplemental fees separately for each section traveled.

### Children

**Adult** (12 years and older)
  
Adults pay the full fare.

**Child** (6-11 years)
  
Children (kodomo) pay half the price of the base fare, (limited) express fee and seat reservation. However, no child discount is available for the green car fee.

**Young child** (1-5 years)
  
Up to two young children (yoji) per accompanying adult or child travel for free, while the child fare applies to any additional young child. The child fare also applies to young children who occupy a seat in the reserved seat section.

**Infant** (0 years)
  
Infants (nyuji) travel for free, unless they occupy a seat in the reserved seat section, in which case the child fare applies.

### Discounts

The following are some of the discounts, which apply to regular tickets:

**Round trip discount**
  
10 percent off on the base fare of round trip tickets, if the trip covers more than 600 kilometers one way.

**Student discount**
  
20 percent discount on tickets that cover more than 100 kilometers. Students must be registered as student with [JR](e2019.html) in order to be eligible. It includes junior high school, high school and university students as well as students of other recognized schools.

**Group discount**
  
10-15 percent discount to groups of eight or more adults and 30-50 percent discount to groups of eight or more students. Additional discounts apply to groups of more than 30 people. Group tickets must be reserved at least two weeks in advance of usage.


[## The Basics about Overtourism in Japan

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2359_001.html+report+topstory+255+338+0+/news/overtourism.html)

[## Tokyo to Osaka, But Not the Usual Way

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2359_001.html+report+jrkintetsu+1+11+0+/ad/jr-kintetsu-pearl-route/)

[## Ultimate Guide to Limited Express Trains

Travel Guide

](/link.html?/e/e2359_001.html+report+topstory+299+390+0+/e/e2016_limited_express.html)

[## Four spots not to miss on the Boso Peninsula

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2359_001.html+report+chiba+5+15+0+/ad/boso-activities/)

[## 2025 Autumn Color Reports

Travel Report

](/link.html?/e/e2359_001.html+report+topstory+298+389+0+/blog/koyo25/)

[## 14 years after the tsunami

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2359_001.html+report+topstory+297+388+0+/blog/recovery/251028.html)

[## A visit to Legoland Resort Nagoya

Traveling with Kids

](/link.html?/e/e2359_001.html+report+topstory+291+381+0+/blog/traveling-with-kids/250701.html)

[More Stories](/news/s_transport/)

Plan Your Trip:[Transportation](/e/e627.html)

* [Tickets & Passes](/e/e2357.html)
* [Rail Pass Calculator](/railpass/)
* [Trains](/e/e2019.html)

+ [Shinkansen](/e/e2018.html)

- [Tokaido Shinkansen](/e/e2018_tokaido.html)
- [Sanyo Shinkansen](/e/e2018_sanyo.html)
- [Kyushu Shinkansen](/e/e2018_kyushu.html)
- [Nishikyushu Shinkansen](/e/e2018_nishikyushu.html)
- [Tohoku Shinkansen](/e/e2018_tohoku.html)
- [Hokkaido Shinkansen](/e/e2018_hokkaido.html)
- [Joetsu Shinkansen](/e/e2018_joetsu.html)
- [Hokuriku Shinkansen](/e/e2018_nagano.html)

+ [Limited Express Trains](/e/e2016_limited_express.html)
+ [Rail Passes & Tickets](/e/e2359.html)

- [Regular Train Tickets](/e/e2359_001.html)
- [IC cards](/e/e2359_003.html)
- [Rail Passes](/e/e2357.html)
- [Japan Rail Pass (JR Pass)](/e/e2361.html)
- [Railpass Calculator](/railpass/)
- [Seishun 18 Kippu](/e/e2362.html)
- [JR Hokkaido Rail Pass](/e/e2361_01.html)
- [JR Sapporo-Noboribetsu Area Pass](/e/e2361_noboribetsu.html)
- [JR Sapporo-Furano Area Pass](/e/e2361_furano.html)
- [JR Tohoku South Hokkaido Rail Pass](/e/e2361_tohoku_hokkaido.html)
- [JR East South Hokkaido Rail Pass](/e/e2361_southhokkaido.html)
- [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](/e/e2361_tohoku.html)
- [Sendai Area Pass](/e/e2361_sendai.html)
- [JR East Nagano Niigata Area Pass](/e/e2361_nagano_niigata.html)
- [JR Tokyo Wide Pass](/e/e2361_06.html)
- [Mt.Fuji Shizuoka Area Tourist Pass](/e/e2361_fuji_shizuoka.html)
- [Hokuriku Arch Pass](/e/e2361_arch.html)
- [Takayama Hokuriku Tourist Pass](/e/e2361_takayama_hokuriku.html)
- [Alpine Takayama Matsumoto Tourist Pass](/e/e2361_alpen.html)
- [JR Hokuriku Area Pass](/e/e2361_hokuriku.html)
- [JR Kansai Hokuriku Area Pass](/e/e2361_kansai_hokuriku.html)
- [Ise Kumano Wakayama Area Tourist Pass](/e/e2361_ise_kumano.html)
- [Kansai Passes](/e/e2357_kansai.html)
- [JR West One-Way Tickets](/e/e2361_jrwest.html)
- [Kansai Railway Pass](/e/e2357_005.html)
- [JR Kansai Mini Pass](/e/e2361_kansai_mini.html)
- [JR Kansai Area Pass](/e/e2361_03.html)
- [JR Kansai Wide Area Pass](/e/e2361_08.html)
- [Kintetsu Rail Pass](/e/e2357_006.html)
- [JR West All Area Pass](/e/e2361_west.html)
- [JR Kansai Hiroshima Area Pass](/e/e2361_kansai_hiroshima.html)
- [JR Setouchi Area Pass](/e/e2361_setouchi.html)
- [JR Sanyo Sanin Area Pass](/e/e2361_sanyo_sanin.html)
- [JR Sanyo Sanin Northern Kyushu Pass](/e/e2361_sanyo_sanin_kyushu.html)
- [JR Kansai Sanin Pass](/e/e2361_sanin.html)
- [Tottori Matsue Pass](/e/e2361_tottori_matsue.html)
- [JR Hiroshima Yamaguchi Area Pass](/e/e2361_hiroshima_yamaguchi.html)
- [JR Okayama Hiroshima Yamaguchi Area Pass](/e/e2361_okayama_yamaguchi.html)
- [All Shikoku Pass](/e/e2357_shikoku.html)
- [JR Kyushu Rail Pass](/e/e2361_05.html)
- [JR Fukuoka Wide Pass](/e/e2361_fukuoka.html)

+ [Night Trains](/e/e2356.html)
+ [How to use trains](/e/e2016.html)
+ [Train Timetables](/e/e2323.html)
+ [Rush Hours](/e/e2020.html)

* [Flights](/planning/transportation/flights.html)

+ [International Air Travel](/e/e2034.html)
+ [Domestic Air Travel](/e/e2365.html)
+ [Domestic Air Discounts](/e/e2364.html)

* [Buses](/planning/transportation/bus.html)

+ [Local Buses](/e/e2015.html)
+ [Highway Buses](/e/e2366.html)
+ [Sun Q Pass](/e/e2357_014.html)
+ [Timetable: Mount Fuji 5th Station](/bus/fuji.html)
+ [Timetable: Mount Fuji Climbing Season](/bus/fuji_season.html)
+ [Timetable: Gotemba-Kawaguchiko](/bus/gotemba.html)
+ [Timetable: Shirakawago](/bus/shirakawago.html)
+ [Timetable: Gokayama](/bus/gokayama.html)
+ [Timetable: Kiso Valley](/bus/kiso.html)

* [Driving](/e/e2022.html)

+ [Rental Cars](/e/e2024.html)
+ [Expressways](/e/e2354.html)

* [Taxis](/e/e2021.html)
* [Ferries](/e/e2355.html)
* [Bicycles](/e/e2210.html)

[## The Basics about Overtourism in Japan

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2359_001.html+report+topstory+255+338+0+/news/overtourism.html)

[## Tokyo to Osaka, But Not the Usual Way

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2359_001.html+report+jrkintetsu+1+11+0+/ad/jr-kintetsu-pearl-route/)

[## Ultimate Guide to Limited Express Trains

Travel Guide

](/link.html?/e/e2359_001.html+report+topstory+299+390+0+/e/e2016_limited_express.html)

[## Four spots not to miss on the Boso Peninsula

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2359_001.html+report+chiba+5+15+0+/ad/boso-activities/)

[## 2025 Autumn Color Reports

Travel Report

](/link.html?/e/e2359_001.html+report+topstory+298+389+0+/blog/koyo25/)

[## 14 years after the tsunami

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2359_001.html+report+topstory+297+388+0+/blog/recovery/251028.html)

[## A visit to Legoland Resort Nagoya

Traveling with Kids

](/link.html?/e/e2359_001.html+report+topstory+291+381+0+/blog/traveling-with-kids/250701.html)

[More Stories](/news/s_transport/)