---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2316.html
title: Takoyaki
description: An introduction to takoyaki, grilled octopus balls.
keywords: takoyaki, octopus, dish, japan, japanese
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 1086
char_count: 7866
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:55:06
---

Takoyaki (たこ焼き), which literally translates to grilled octopus, refers to the savory [dish](e2035.html) of grilled balls of batter made with flour and eggs filled with octopus chunks and other ingredients like [pickled ginger](e2349.html#benishoga) (beni shoga) and leftover fried [tempura](/r/e106.html) batter (tenkasu). Each takoyaki ball is approximately the size of a [golf](e2082.html) ball.

Typically made fresh in-store, the exterior of a takoyaki ball is a nice golden brown while the interior can be a touch molten. A single order of takoyaki contains about eight balls, which are topped with [shaved bonito flakes](e2313.html#katsuobushi) (katsuobushi), [aonori seaweed flakes](e2313.html#aonori) and drizzled with [mayonnaise](e2313.html#mayo) and [takoyaki sauce](e2313.html#sauce).

A typical serving of takoyaki

Takoyaki originated and is particularly popular in [Osaka](e4022.html). It is typically sold at specialized stands or small restaurants, and is also a favorite at [festivals](e2063.html) where one will likely encounter at least one takoyaki stand. Takoyaki is also a fun dish to make at home, and smaller takoyaki grill plates for home use are easily available at shops.

One of the appeals of takoyaki is watching how it is cooked on large takoyaki grill plates. As takoyaki are made on the spot, they are almost always piping hot, and diners should take care not to burn their tongues in their haste to eat. Instead of [chopsticks](e2039.html), toothpicks or short bamboo skewers are often provided to poke the takoyaki and eat them.

Entrance to Takoyaki Park in Osaka, a collection of six well-known takoyaki shops

Two attractions dedicated to takoyaki are the Takoyaki Park in Universal Citywalk Osaka, just outside the [Universal Studios Japan](e4021.html) and the Takoyaki Museum in Decks Tokyo Beach in [Odaiba](e3008.html), [Tokyo](e2164.html). Both places offer a collection of popular and well-known takoyaki shops from Osaka, from which diners can compare the different takoyaki varieties and flavors.

Similar in shape and ingredients, but not to be confused with takoyaki is **akashiyaki**, a local specialty of Akashi City, [Hyogo Prefecture](/list/e1230.html), not far from Osaka. Akashiyaki is similar to fluffy egg souffle balls with small octopus chunks, and the balls are dipped into hot dashi soup stock before eating. Each akashiyaki ball is approximately about two thirds the size of a golf ball, and a single serve usually contains about 10 to 20 balls.

A single serving of akashiyaki