---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2359_003.html
title: Prepaid IC Cards in Japan\: Suica, Pasmo, Icoca
description: A tourist's guide to IC cards in Japan used for paying transportation fares and for shopping.
keywords: ic, prepaid, card, cards, suica, pasmo, icoca, pitapa, toica, manaca, kitaca, sugoca, hayakaken, nimoca
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 1765
char_count: 12278
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:44:58
---

As of March 1, 2025, Suica and Pasmo cards can again be purchased normally. Their sale had been restricted over the past years due to a shortage of IC chips.

Suica, Pasmo, Icoca and seven more of Japan's most popular IC cards were made compatible with each other in 2013, making it possible to travel on almost all [trains](e2019.html), subways and [buses](e2015.html) in most of [Japan's largest cities](/list/e1004.html) with just a single of these cards.

### What is an IC card?

IC cards are rechargeable cards that can be used to conveniently pay fares on [public transportation](e627.html) and to make payments at many [vending machines](e2010.html), [shops](e2450.html) and [restaurants](e2036.html) by simply touching the card on a reader for about one second. Dozens of train and bus operators across Japan have started issuing their own IC cards since 2001.

Instead of physical IC cards, it is possible to use [digital versions](#digital) of some of the cards on [mobile phones](e2223.html); however, at present, oversea tourists can do this only if they own an [Iphone](#digital).

### Validity

#### What are the ten major IC cards?

The following ten major IC cards are compatible with each other:

* 

  **Suica** is the prepaid IC card by [JR East](e2019.html) for JR trains in the [Greater Tokyo](/list/e1103.html), Niigata and [Sendai](e5150.html) regions. A special version of Suica, called **Welcome Suica**, is available to foreign tourists. The special cards are valid for only four weeks, come without a deposit fee, but do not allow for refunds. An app version, Welcome Suica Mobile, is available for Iphones and is valid for 180 days instead of just four weeks.
* 

  **Pasmo** is the prepaid IC card of [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s railway, subway and bus operators other than Japan Railways (JR).
* 

  **Icoca** is the prepaid IC card of [JR West](e2019.html) for JR trains in the [Kansai](/list/e1105.html) (incl. [Osaka](e2157.html) and [Kyoto](e2158.html)), [Chugoku](/list/e1106.html) and Hokuriku regions.
* 

  **Pitapa** is the IC card of the [Kansai Region](/list/e1105.html)'s railway and subway operators other than JR. Unlike the other nine cards, Pitapa is a postpaid rather than prepaid card and not available to foreign tourists.
* 

  **Toica** is the prepaid IC card by [JR Central](e2019.html) for JR trains in the [Greater Nagoya](e2155.html) area and some parts of [Shizuoka Prefecture](/list/e1218.html).
* 

  **Manaca** is the prepaid IC card of [Nagoya](e2155.html)'s train, subway and bus operators other than JR and Kintetsu.
* 

  **Kitaca** is the prepaid IC card by [JR Hokkaido](e2019.html) for JR trains in the [Greater Sapporo](e2163.html) region, including [Otaru](e6700.html), between Sapporo and [Asahikawa](e6890.html), and between [Hakodate](e5350.html) and Shin-Hakodate-Hokuto Station, the city's [shinkansen](e2018_hokkaido.html) station. It can be used also on Sapporo's subways, buses and tram.
* 

  **Sugoca** is the prepaid IC card of [JR Kyushu](e2019.html) for JR trains in the [Greater Fukuoka](e2161.html), [Kumamoto](e4500.html), [Kagoshima](e4600.html), Oita and [Nagasaki](e2162.html) regions.
* 

  **Nimoca** is the prepaid IC card of Nishitetsu for Nishitetsu trains and buses in [Greater Fukuoka](e2161.html) and selected non-JR transportation in other cities on [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html) and in [Hakodate](e5350.html).
* 

  **Hayakaken** is the prepaid IC card of [Fukuoka City](e2161.html) for the Fukuoka Subway.

#### What is covered and what is not?

The ten cards are valid on virtually all trains, subways and buses in most of Japan's major cities, including [Tokyo](e2164.html), [Osaka](e2157.html), [Kyoto](e2158.html), [Nagoya](e2155.html) and [Fukuoka](e2161.html). But there are a few issues to keep in mind:

* **Travel outside or between IC card areas**

  It is not possible to travel outside IC card areas. Both, the origin and destination stations have to be located inside the IC card's coverage area. Furthermore, it is not possible to use an IC card to travel between disjoined IC card areas (except when using shinkansen trains; see details below). For example, you cannot use it to travel between [Tokyo](e2164.html) and [Sendai](e5150.html).
* **Shinkansen**

  IC cards can be used on selected [shinkansen](e2018.html) lines, but need some set-up before use. There are currently three different systems:

  + **On the Tokaido/Sanyo/Kyushu Shinkansen**
      
    IC cards can be used on the [Tokaido](e2018_tokaido.html)/[Sanyo](e2018_sanyo.html)/[Kyushu Shinkansen](e2018_kyushu.html) via the [Tokaido Sanyo Kyushu Shinkansen Online Reservation Service](https://smart-ex.jp/en/) (smartEX). In order to do so, one or more IC cards and a credit card have to be registered on the website. Afterwards, it is possible to purchase [shinkansen](e2018.html) tickets online and use the registered IC cards to pass through the shinkansen ticket gates. Fares are charged to the registered credit card rather than subtracted from the IC cards' balance.
  + **On shinkansen in eastern and northern Japan**
      
    It is possible to use regular IC cards on all shinkansen trains in eastern and northern Japan by purchasing e-tickets through [JR East's reservation website](https://www.jreast.co.jp/e/ticket/reservation.html) (EkiNet). Fares are charged to the registered credit card rather than subtracted from the IC cards' balance.
  + **On shinkansen operated by JR East**
      
    Regular IC cards can be used on non-reserved seats along the [Tohoku, Akita, Yamagata](e2018_tohoku.html), [Joetsu](e2018_joetsu.html) and [Hokuriku](e2018_nagano.html) Shinkansen trains (Hokuriku Shinkansen only between Tokyo and Joetsu-Myoko stations). Before you can use an IC card for this service, which is known as "Touch de Go", a one-time set-up procedure is required at a ticket machine. Fares will be subtracted from the IC card's balance.* **Other trains requiring a supplement fee**

    When riding other trains that require a supplement fee, e.g. [limited express](e2016.html) trains, travelers can use the IC card to pay the [base fare](e2359_001.html) when passing through the ticket gates, but the supplement ticket needs to be purchased separately at a ticket machine, office or online.
  * **Highway buses**

    Many [highway buses](e2366.html) cannot be paid by IC card.

The table below shows in more detail the coverage of the IC cards:

 = can be used
  
 = cannot be used

|  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **City** | **JR transportation** | **non-JR transportation** |
| [Sapporo](e2163.html)  [Sendai](e5150.html)  [Tokyo](e2164.html)  [Yokohama](e2156.html)  [Kamakura](e2166.html)  [Fuji Five Lakes](e6900.html)  [Hakone](e5200.html)  [Nikko](e3800.html)  [Nagoya](e2155.html)  [Kyoto](e2158.html)  [Osaka](e2157.html)  [Nara](e2165.html)  [Kobe](e2159.html)  [Himeji](e3500.html)  [Mount Koya](e4900.html)  [Okayama](e5700.html)  [Hiroshima](e2160.html)  [Fukuoka](e2161.html)  [Beppu](e4700.html) |  |  |
| [Izu Peninsula](e6310.html) |  | |  |  | | --- | --- | |  | Izuhakone trains | |  | other trains and buses | |
| [Ise Shima](e4310.html) |  |  |
| [Kumamoto](e4500.html) |  | |  |  | | --- | --- | |  | trams (until March 2026) | |  | buses | |
| [Kagoshima](e4600.html) |  |  |
| [Naha](e7102.html) | - |  |

### Basic use

#### How to use IC cards?

When passing automatic ticket gates, touch the card onto the card reader for about one second (rather than inserting it into the ticket slot). The applicable fare will be automatically deducted when you exit through the ticket gate at your destination station. When riding [buses](e2015.html), card readers are placed at the entrance and/or exit of the bus. A card cannot be shared by multiple travelers for the same ride. Each traveler needs a separate card.

Ticket gate with IC card reader

#### Is there a discount over regular tickets?

IC cards generally do not provide any discounts over regular tickets. But in Greater [Tokyo](e2164.html), Niigata and [Sendai](e5150.html), train fares can differ by a few yen depending on whether an IC card or a paper ticket is used. This is because fares are rounded to the nearest ten yen in case of paper tickets, but not rounded in case of IC cards. Around central Tokyo, payment by IC card is always cheaper than payment by paper ticket (by up to nine yen), but outside of central Tokyo, either ticket type can be up to five yen cheaper than the other.

#### Where to get an IC card?

IC cards can be purchased at ticket machines and ticket counters of the issuing railway companies. The initial cost consists of a refundable deposit of 500 yen plus an initial amount (typically 1500 yen) to be charged onto the card. For a surcharge, [Suica](https://affiliate.japan-experience.com/click?o=4&a=31&link_id=802) and [Pasmo](https://affiliate.japan-experience.com/click?o=4&a=31&link_id=801) cards can also be purchased and sent to you before the start of your trip through [Japan Experience](https://affiliate.japan-experience.com/click?o=4&a=31&link_id=802). Last but not least, [Iphone users can add Suica, Pasmo and Icoca cards to Apple Pay](#digital).

#### Are there digital versions of the IC cards?

Iphone 8 and later models can be set up to serve as Suica, Pasmo and Icoca cards by adding the cards to Apple Pay, but note that some credit cards issued outside of Japan cannot be used to charge your card. In addition, the "Welcome Suica Mobile" app is available for Iphones.

Android phones can be used as IC cards through the "Mobile Suica", "Mobile Pasmo" and "Mobile Icoca" apps; however, the apps are targeted at residents of Japan and difficult or impossible to use for visitors to Japan. Specifically, they require Osaifu Keitai compatibility, which is not provided by most phones sold outside of Japan, come in Japanese only, and require an address in Japan and possibly a credit card that has been issued in Japan.

#### Which IC card shall I get?

The IC cards are virtually identical to each other in terms of coverage. The cards differ mainly on where they can be purchased and refunded. Therefore, most people will want to purchase the card available in the first city they visit, e.g. Suica or Pasmo in [Tokyo](e2164.html) or Icoca in [Osaka](e2157.html). If you load a [digital card](#digital) onto your [mobile phone](e2223.html), then you have the choice of Suica, Pasmo or Icoca regardless of your geographical location.

Ticket machine

#### How to recharge IC cards?

IC cards can be recharged at ticket machines and special re-charging machines found in strategically meaningful locations. They can also be recharged at stations of companies other than the issuing company, e.g. Suica can also be recharged in [Osaka](e2157.html). Furthermore, many [convenience stores](e2071.html) allow IC cards to be recharged at the cashier. The maximum amount to be charged onto a card is 20,000 yen.

#### How to check the current balance?

The current credit balance is shown on a small display whenever you pass a ticket gate or make a payment at a store. Furthermore, the balance can be checked at ticket machines together with a usage history.

#### How to get back the 500 yen refundable deposit?

Bring your card to the ticket counter of the issuing operator in order to get back your 500 yen deposit. Unused credit can also be refunded; however, most companies will subtract a 220 yen handling fee from the remaining balance. Note that IC cards can be returned only to the issuing company, e.g. it is not possible to return a Suica card in [Osaka](e2157.html) or an Icoca card in [Tokyo](e2164.html).

#### Is there an expiry date?

Cards become invalid if they are not used for ten years.

#### Card types

Besides regular cards, there are personalized cards which can be replaced if lost (handling fee applies), commuter cards which also serve as a commuter pass, and cards for children.