---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2003.html
title: Japanese Toilets
description: How to use a Japanese toilet.
keywords: japan, toilet, washroom, restroom, toilets, japanese
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 375
char_count: 2723
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:37:35
---

There are two types of toilets in Japan: **Japanese-style** and **Western-style**.

Public washrooms are often equipped with both toilet styles, although many newer facilities may have only Western-style toilets. The toilets in almost all modern homes and hotels are Western-style. Japanese-style toilets are gradually becoming a rarity.

Many Western-style toilets in Japan feature options such as a heated seat, a built-in shower and dryer for your behind (washlet) and an automatic lid opener. Both Western and Japanese-style toilets usually have two flush modes: "small" (小) and "large" (大), differing in the amount of water used.

These days, toilet paper is almost always provided in public washrooms - something that was not the case in past decades. However, paper towels or dryers for drying your hands are not always provided. Consequently, it is recommended to carry a handkerchief.

When using the washroom in a private home, [minshuku](e2026.html) or [ryokan](e2029.html), you will often find toilet [slippers](e2001.html) for exclusive use inside the washroom. Leave your usual slippers outside the washroom, and do not forget to change back into them afterwards, to avoid an often committed cultural faux pas.

Toilet fans should consider visiting the [TOTO Museum](e4883.html) in [Kitakyushu](e4875.html). The museum is dedicated to the history of toilets and Japan's leading toilet producer TOTO.

Exhibit at the TOTO Museum

### How to use Japanese-style toilets

1. Face the front of the toilet (see picture below).
2. Pull down your pants and underpants or lift up your skirt.
3. Squat down close to the front of the toilet. In case of elevated toilets (see picture below), you need to stand on the raised platform while squatting

Regular (left) and elevated (right) Japanese-style toilets