---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2013.html
title: Japanese Plum (ume) Blossoms
description: Tourist guide to the Japanese plum or ume.
keywords: ume, Japanese, plum, apricot, matsuri, blossom, tree, umeboshi
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 920
char_count: 6145
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:47:27
---

Originally introduced from China, the Japanese plum (梅, ume; sometimes referred to as Japanese apricot) has played an important role in [Japanese culture](e639.html) for many centuries. Its popularity was eventually surpassed by that of the [cherry tree](e2011.html).

The plum is associated with the start of spring, because plum blossoms are some of the first blossoms to open during the year. In most areas of Japan, including [Tokyo](e2164.html), they typically flower in February and March, although some varieties bloom even earlier. The event is celebrated with plum festivals (ume matsuri) in public parks, [shrines](e2059.html) and [temples](e2058.html) across the country.

Like [cherry trees](e2011.html), plum trees come in many varieties, many of which were cultivated by humans over the centuries. Most plum blossoms have five petals and range in color from white to dark pink. Some varieties with more than five petals (yae-ume) and weeping branches (shidare-ume) have also been cultivated. Unlike [cherry blossoms](e2011.html), plum blossoms have a strong, sweet fragrance.

Umeboshi

The actual ume fruit is more sour than the Western plum or apricot and is usually processed in various ways before eaten. The most popular processed form is the [umeboshi](e2349.html#umeboshi), a sour, pickled plum, which is usually enjoyed with cooked [rice](e2043.html). Umeboshi come with one of the most typical Japanese flavors. Umeshu, a sweet [alcoholic beverage](e2037.html) made of plums, is also popular.

### Some popular plum spots around Tokyo

* 

  [Mito](e6200.html)

  [Kairakuen](e6201.html)

  Mito Station, 80 minutes from Tokyo by JR Joban Line

  Ranked as one of Japan's three finest landscape gardens, [Kairakuen](e6201.html) in [Mito](e6200.html), about 100 kilometers north of [Tokyo](e2164.html), features over 3000 plum trees of 100 varieties. A plum festival is held from February 11 to March 20, 2025.
* 

  [Tokyo](e2164.html)

  [Koishikawa Korakuen](e3034_003.html)

  Korakuen Station, Marunouchi Subway Line

  [Koishikawa Korakuen](e3034_003.html) is a Japanese [landscape garden](e2099.html) in central [Tokyo](e2164.html) that features a small grove of plum trees. It used to be the site of a Tokyo residence of the feudal lords of Mito, the city where Kairakuen (see above) is located. A plum festival is held from February 1 to March 2, 2025.
* 

  [Tokyo](e2164.html)

  Yushima Tenjin Shrine

  Yushima Station, Chiyoda Subway Line

  Located not far from [Ueno Park](e3019.html), Yushima Tenjin is a popular shrine among students who wish to pass entrance exams. A plum festival is held annually from February 8 to March 8 with various events on weekends and holidays.
* 

  [Tokyo](e2164.html)

  Hanegi Park

  Umegaoka Station, Odakyu Line

  A short train ride outside of central Tokyo, Hanegi Park is a small public city park with about 700 plum trees of many varieties. The Setagaya Ume Matsuri is celebrated here from February 8 to March 2, 2025 with some events on weekends and holidays.

### Some popular plum spots around Kyoto

* 

  [Kyoto](e2158.html)

  [Kitano Tenmangu Shrine](e3939.html)

  Short walk from Kitanohakubaicho Station

  The foremost shrine devoted to Tenjin in [Kyoto](e2158.html), [Kitano Tenmangu](e3939.html) has about 2000 plum trees in its garden. The garden is open to the public during the flowering season (January 25 to March 16, 2025, 9:00 to 16:00, 1200 yen). A special tea ceremony (Baikasai) is held in the garden on February 25.
* 

  [Kyoto](e2158.html)

  Umenomiya Taisha

  15 minute walk from Matsuo Taisha Station on the Hankyu Arashiyama Line

  Plum blossoms are one of the symbols of Umenomiya Taisha, and the pleasant paid garden at the back of the [shrine](e2059.html) boasts a plum grove at its western end. There are about 450 plum trees of around 35 different varieties in the garden.
* 

  [Kyoto](e2158.html)

  [Kyoto Imperial Park](e3917.html)

  Short walk from Marutamachi Station

  The [Kyoto Imperial Park](e3917.html) is an attractive park in the center of [Kyoto](e2158.html) that encompasses the Kyoto Imperial Palace and the [Sento Imperial Palace](e3935.html) in addition to other attractions. About 200 plum trees can be found in the southwestern end of the park.

### Some popular plum spots around Osaka

* 

  [Osaka](e2157.html)

  [Osaka Castle Park](e4000.html)

  Short walk from Osakajokoen Station

  Located on the eastern end of Osaka Castle Park between the inner and outer moats, the spacious plum grove at [Osaka Castle](e4000.html) offers almost 1300 plum trees of over 100 varieties. It takes at least 20 minutes to walk through the entire grove.
* 

  [Osaka](e2157.html)

  [Osaka Expo '70 Park](e4029.html)

  10 minute walk from Bampakukinenkoen Station

  The large public [Expo '70 Commemorative Park](e4029.html) offers two areas to see plum blossoms. The main spot is west of the Tower of the Sun and main entrance, and offers around 600 plum trees of about 120 varieties. The second and smaller spot is located in the [Japanese landscape garden](e2099.html) at the northern end of the park with about 80 trees of 40 varieties.

### Other famous plum spots

* 

  [Dazaifu](e4850.html)

  [Dazaifu Tenmangu Shrine](e4851.html)

  5 minute walk from Dazaifu Station

  The most important of all Tenjin Shrines, the [Dazaifu Tenmangu Shrine](e4851.html), is located in [Dazaifu](e4850.html) near [Fukuoka](e2161.html) on [Kyushu Island](/list/e1108.html). About 6000 plum trees can be found on its grounds.
* 

  [Nara](e2165.html)

  [Nara Park](e4103.html)

  15-20 minute walk from Kintetsu Nara Station

  The Kataoka Plum Grove in [Nara Park](e4103.html) is located in the quieter southwestern end, not far from the [Nara National Museum](e4109.html). About 250 plum trees can be found in that area.
* 

  [Narita](e6400.html)

  [Naritasan Park](e6401.html)

  15-20 minute walk from JR Narita or Keisei Narita stations

  There are two plum groves in the pleasant Naritasan Park, one not far from the main hall of [Naritasan Temple](e6401.html) at the entrance of the park, the other at the base of the Great Pagoda of Peace. Together they have almost 500 plum trees making a walk through the park even more enjoyable when the flowers are in bloom.