---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2327.html
title: Volcanoes and Hell Valleys in Japan
description: A list of volcanoes and hell valleys in Japan.
keywords: volcano, volcanoes, active, jigokudani, hell, valley, valleys, japan, japanese, where
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 1856
char_count: 13255
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:42:55
---

Most of Japan's mountains are of volcanic origin. While volcanoes cause major destruction and inconvenience during their eruptions, many of them are also tourist attractions for their scenic landscapes, [hiking](e2427_where.html) trails and relaxing [hot springs](e2292.html). Also related to volcanoes are the so called [hell valleys](#jigokudani) (jigokudani), fields of volcanic activity that attract tourists with spectacular steam vents, hot streams and the smell of sulfur in the air.

Most of Japan's volcanoes are found in [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html), the [Tohoku](/list/e1102.html), [Kanto](/list/e1103.html) and [Chubu](/list/e1104.html) regions, and on [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html), while comparatively fewer are found in the [Kansai](/list/e1105.html), [Shikoku](/list/e1107.html) and [Chugoku](/list/e1106.html) regions. [Mount Fuji](e2172.html) is the tallest and most famous volcano in Japan. Several prominent volcanoes around the country are nicknamed after Mount Fuji, e.g. [Rishiri-Fuji](#rishiri) or [Aizu-Fuji](#bandai), because of their similar shape and local fame.

The hell valley at Noboribetsu Onsen

### Warning levels

The Japan Meteorological Agency maintains a 5-level warning system for volcanic activity. The scale begins at level one, which indicates a normal state, although visitors should still be aware that they approach a potentially active volcano. Level two indicates a no-entry zone around the crater, while level three prohibits hiking up the mountain. At level four, nearby residents should prepare to evacuate, and level five calls for immediate evacuation due to an imminent eruption threatening residential areas.

See our [Disaster Update](/news/alerts.html#volcano) page for a list of prominent volcanoes that are currently closed.

### Prominent volcanoes

* 

  [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html)

  [Mount Rishiri](e6876.html)

  Last eruption: 2000-8000 years ago  
  Height: 1721 meters

  Mount Rishiri, also referred to as Rishiri-Fuji, is a volcano on [Rishiri Island](e6876.html) about 20 kilometers off the northern tip of [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html). Over 1700 meters tall, it rises impressively out of the sea. Visitors can drive about halfway up the mountain before continuing the rest of the way to the peak on foot. The hike takes a full day and is quite challenging.
* 

  [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html)

  [Mount Meakan](e6807.html)

  Last eruption: 2006  
  Height: 1499 meters

  [Mount Meakan](e6807.html) is an active volcano in [Akan Mashu National Park](e6800.html) in eastern [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html), offering some of the best volcanic landscape in all of Japan. It has erupted multiple times in recent decades.
* 

  [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html)

  [Mount Daisetsuzan](e6775.html)

  Last eruption: 1739  
  Height: 2290 meters

  [Mount Daisetsuzan](e6775.html) is a range of peaks in [Daisetsuzan National Park](e6775.html) that includes [Mount Asahidake](e6776.html), the tallest mountain on [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html). The national park is one of the best [hiking destinations](e2427.html) in Japan from late June through September. South of Mount Daisetsuzan, but still within Daisetsuzan National Park stands [Mount Tokachidake](e6782.html), a 2077 meter tall peak that last erupted in 2004.
* 

  [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html)

  [Mount Tarumae](e6736.html)

  Last eruption: 1981  
  Height: 1041 meters

  Located in [Shikotsu-Toya National Park](e6735.html) beside [Lake Shikotsuko](e6736.html), Mount Tarumae is one of Japan's most active volcanoes. It most recently erupted in 1981. Hikers can reach the summit in under an hour from a parking lot at the 8th Station and are rewarded with impressive views of the desolate landscape as well as Lake Shikotsuko below. It is possible to circle the crater in about two hours, but visitors are not allowed to enter the interior of the crater due to poisonous gases.
* 

  [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html)

  [Mount Usu](e6726.html)

  Last eruption: 2000  
  Height: 733 meters

  Mount Usu last erupted in the year 2000, causing damage to the [onsen town below it](e6729.html). Today, visitors can explore the ruined landscape via walking trails around the [new west craters](e6727.html). On the east side of the mountain, the [Usuzan Ropeway](e6726.html) brings visitors close to the volcano's summit and older crater and offers views over [Lake Toya](e6725.html) and [Showa Shinzan](e6728.html), a young mountain which was created by an eruption in 1944. Showa Shinzan is still actively venting sulfurous fumes today.
* 

  Yamagata and Miyagi Prefectures

  [Mount Zao](e7925.html)

  Last eruption: 1940  
  Height: 1841 meters

  On the border between [Yamagata](/list/e1205.html) and [Miyagi](/list/e1206.html) prefectures, [Mount Zao](e7925.html) is known for its spectacular [Okama Crater](e7929.html) which can be reached in a short walk from a parking lot. In the winter, Mount Zao is a popular site to see [snow monsters](e7927.html) (frozen trees), but access to the crater is not easily possible.
* 

  Fukushima and Yamagata Prefectures

  [Azuma Mountains](e7754.html)

  Last eruption: 1977  
  Height: 1949 meters

  The [Azuma Mountains](e7754.html) are a volcanic mountain range along the border of [Fukushima](/list/e1208.html) and [Yamagata](/list/e1205.html) Prefectures. The star attraction is Azuma-Kofuji, a miniature version of Mount Fuji that is beautifully symmetrical and can be climbed and circled in about one hour.
* 

  [Fukushima Prefecture](/list/e1208.html)

  [Mount Bandai](e7755.html)

  Last eruption: 1888  
  Height: 1816 meters

  Overlooking [Aizu-Wakamatsu](e7700.html) in western [Fukushima Prefecture](/list/e1208.html), [Mount Bandai](e7755.html) is nicknamed Aizu-Fuji due to the mountain's former conical profile that resembled [Mount Fuji](e2172.html). However, the mountain drastically changed shape during its last eruption in 1888, which also formed the [Urabandai](e7752.html) area. There are several [hiking](e2427.html) trails to the summit and around the base of the mountain.
* 

  Nagano and Gunma Prefectures

  [Mount Asama](e6036.html)

  Last eruption: 2019  
  Height: 2568 meters

  Mount Asama in [Nagano](/list/e1216.html) and [Gunma](/list/e1209.html) prefectures is one of the most active volcanoes on Japan's main island of Honshu. There are a number of [hiking](e2427.html) trails around Mount Asama, however, as of 1972, the crater at the summit is off limits due to volcanic activity. Mount Asama is popularly visited in combination with [Karuizawa](e6030.html), a resort town at the base of the mountain.
* 

  [Gunma Prefecture](/list/e1209.html)

  [Mount Shirane](e7406.html)

  Last eruption: 2018  
  Height: 2165 meters

  [Mount Shirane](e7406.html) is a series of volcanic peaks above the town of [Kusatsu Onsen](e7400.html) in [Gunma Prefecture](/list/e1209.html), known for its easily reached, picturesque crater lake. Mount Shirane provides the high quality, sulfuric [hot spring](e2292.html) waters to the onsen towns of [Kusatsu](e7400.html) and [Manza](e7495.html).
* 

  [Tokyo](e2164.html)

  [Mount Mihara](e8252.html)

  Last eruption: 1990  
  Height: 758 meters

  Located on the island of [Izu Oshima](e8252.html), the largest of the Izu Islands, [Mount Mihara](e8252.html) is an active volcano that has seen explosive eruptions. It is possible to hike up to the summit of Mount Mihara and walk around its crater relatively easily.
* 

  Yamanashi and Shizuoka Prefectures

  [Mount Fuji](e2172.html)

  Last eruption: 1707  
  Height: 3776 meters

  [Mount Fuji](e2172.html), the highest mountain in the country, is a beautifully symmetrical volcano and the symbol of Japan. [Climbing Mount Fuji](e6901.html) is popular during summer with people ascending via four different trails. The [Fuji Five Lakes](e6900.html) (Fujigoko) region north of Mount Fuji is a popular resort destination with [views of the mountain](e6933.html).
* 

  [Tottori Prefecture](/list/e1231.html)

  [Mount Daisen](e8150.html)

  Last eruption: 10,000-50,000 years ago  
  Height: 1729 meters

  [Mount Daisen](e8150.html) is the tallest volcano in the [Chugoku Region](/list/e1106.html). It is covered by a network of [hiking](e2427.html) trails of varying difficulty levels. The mountain exhibits beautiful [autumn colors](e2014.html) from late October to early November, and offers some of western Japan's best [skiing](e2262.html) in winter.
* 

  [Nagasaki Prefecture](/list/e1240.html)

  [Mount Unzen](e4452.html)

  Last eruption: 1996  
  Height: 1483 meters

  [Mount Unzen](e4452.html) is located at the center of the [Shimabara Peninsula](e4450.html) in [Nagasaki Prefecture](/list/e1240.html). A well-done [disaster museum](e4455.html) at its eastern base commemorates the mountain's most recent eruptions that caused damage and deaths in the 1990s. Heisei Shinzan, now the mountain's tallest peak, was formed in the recent eruptions.
* 

  [Kumamoto Prefecture](/list/e1244.html)

  [Mount Aso](e4552.html)

  Last eruption: 2021  
  Height: 1592 meters

  [Mount Aso](e4552.html) lies in the center of [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html) and is part of the [Aso-Kuju National Park](e4570.html). Its caldera is one of the largest in the world with a diameter of about 25 kilometers and a circumference of over 100 kilometers. Nakadake Crater at the center of the active caldera is easily visited by car or ropeway, but note that it is not always accessible due to volcanic gases or activity.
* 

  Kumamoto and Oita Prefectures

  [Kuju Mountains](e4775.html)

  Last eruption: 1996  
  Height: 1791 meters

  The [Kuju Mountains](e4775.html) are a range of volcanic peaks in the [Aso-Kuju National Park](e4570.html) in central [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html). They include the Nakadake peak (1791 meters), the highest point on the island. The mountain range is covered by a network of [hiking](e2427.html) trails that offer spectacular views of the volcanic terrain.
* 

  Kagoshima and Miyazaki Prefectures

  [Mount Kirishima](e4625.html)

  Last eruption: 2018  
  Height: 1700 meters

  [Mount Kirishima](e4625.html) is an active volcanic range on the border between [Miyazaki](/list/e1245.html) and [Kagoshima](/list/e1246.html) prefectures. Its a popular [hiking](e4629.html) destination with its many peaks and fascinating volcanic landscape. However, some of the trails remain closed due to the 2011 eruption of [Shinmoedake](e4629.html). The [onsen town](e4628.html) at the base of the mountain offers quality hot spring waters.
* 

  [Kagoshima Prefecture](/list/e1246.html)

  [Sakurajima](e4601.html)

  Last eruption: 2025  
  Height: 1117 meters

  Located in [Kagoshima](e4600.html), [Sakurajima](e4601.html) is one of Japan's most active volcanoes and the symbol of the city. Despite experiencing multiple small eruptions daily, the peninsula is inhabited and visitors can also stay on Sakurajima; however falling ash is often an inconvenience to those living in the area. There are also a few observation points from where the eruptions can be seen from a distance.
* 

  [Kagoshima Prefecture](/list/e1246.html)

  [Mount Kaimondake](e4681.html)

  Last eruption: 885  
  Height: 924 meters

  [Mount Kaimondake](e4681.html), also known as Satsuma-Fuji, is a conical shaped mountain on the [Satsuma Peninsula](e4675.html). It is possible to hike up the mountain in about two to three hours and take in the breathtaking views of the surrounding area. In addition to hiking, there are also [hot springs](e2292.html) and the famous [sand baths](e4677.html) in nearby [Ibusuki](e4677.html).

### Hell valleys (jigokudani)

Hell valleys are barren, volcanically active grounds with a rocky terrain, hot steam vents, sulfurous streams, bubbling springs and mud pools. Hell valleys earn their name by their desolate landscape, the smell of sulfur in the air and occasional deaths of small animals who fell victim to the heavy, poisonous gases that are emitted by some of the vents and settle just above the ground. Local authorities will close off sections of hell valleys that pose a health risk to visiting tourists.

* 

  [Akan National Park](e6800.html)

  [Mount Iozan](e6804.html)

  Mount Iozan lies in the vicinity of [Kawayu Onsen](e6806.html) in [Akan National Park](e6800.html)
  and was the site of a sulfur mining operation during the [Meiji Period](e2130.html) (1868-1912). Visitors can walk around the smoking yellow sulfurous vents and eat eggs cooked in heat of the mountain.
* 

  [Noboribetsu](e6750.html)

  [Noboribetsu Hell Valley](e6751.html)

  Arguably Japan's most handsome hell valley, the [Noboribetsu Jigokudani](e6751.html) lies just above the town of Noboribetsu Onsen. It is home to hot steam vents, sulfurous streams and other volcanic activity and serves as the source of [Noboribetsu](e6750.html)'s hot spring waters. Walking trails through the wooded hills lead to additional areas of volcanic activity, including a footbath along a naturally warm river.
* 

  [Hachimantai](e3651.html)

  [Goshogake Onsen](e3654.html)

  [Goshogake Onsen](e3654.html) is a [hot spring](e2292.html) in the [Hachimantai Mountains](e3651.html). One of Japan's best hell valleys, it lies behind the onsen's sole [ryokan](e2029.html) and features a two kilometer long, scenic walking route that leads to bubbling mud ponds, hissing sulfur vents and hot water streams.
* 

  [Hachimantai](e3651.html)

  [Tamagawa Onsen](e3653.html)

  [Tamagawa Onsen](e3653.html) is a unique hot spring in [Towada-Hachimantai National Park](e3658.html). The hell valley above the ryokan features Japan's single most productive source, the country's most acidic waters, hissing sulfurous vents and a slightly radioactive stone that is believed to have a wide range of health effects. As a result, many people spend hours lying on the radioactive rocks in the hell valley.
* 

  [Hakone](e5200.html)

  [Owakudani](e5203.html)

  [Owakudani](e5203.html) is a hell valley in [Hakone](e5200.html) along the Hakone Ropeway. Visitors can walk along a short trail into the volcanic zone to view the steam vents and bubbling pools. Many people also purchase and eat eggs that were cooked in the naturally hot water. On clear days, good views of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html) can be enjoyed from Owakudani.
* 

  [Yamanouchi](e6025.html)

  [Jigokudani Monkey Park](e6028.html)

  The [Jigokudani Monkey Park](e6028.html) in [Yamanouchi](e6025.html) is the main attraction of an otherwise minor hell valley. The park is inhabited by wild monkeys who enjoy bathing in a man-made pool, especially in the winter. While there are not many signs of volcanic activity inside the monkey park, a small sulfuric vent and geyser can be seen along the path to it, and the [onsen towns](e2292.html) of [Shibu](e6029.html) and [Yudanaka](e6024.html) are located nearby.
* 

  [Shimabara Peninsula](e4450.html)

  [Unzen Hells](e4453.html)

  The [Unzen Hells](e4453.html) (Unzen Jigoku) are located on the slopes of [Mount Unzen](e4452.html). The hells surround the [hot spring](e2292.html) resort town of [Unzen Onsen](e4453.html) and provide waters to the [ryokan](e2029.html) baths around the town. There is a network of walking trails through the hells that allow visitors to see several steam vents, gushing hot springs, mud holes and observation points around the barren, rocky area.
* 

  [Beppu](e4700.html)

  [Beppu Hells](e4702.html)

  Unlike a typical hell valley, [Beppu](e4700.html)'s [hells](e4702.html) consist of eight spectacular [hot spring](e2292.html) pools that are highly developed for tourism. Six of the hells are located in the Kannawa district and two in the Shibaseki district. The eight boiling hot springs range in color from blue to red to white, and offer a variety of tourist attractions within their vicinity.