---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2016.html
title: Taking the train in Japan
description: A tourist guide to taking trains in Japan.
keywords: train, japan, trains, japanese, rail, railway, railways
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 1339
char_count: 9394
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:45:59
---

The following is a guide on how to use [trains](e2019.html) in Japan. We also have more specific pages on [shinkansen](e2018.html) (bullet trains), [train tickets](e2359.html), [timetables](e2323.html), [luggage](e2274.html), [night trains](e2356.html) and [train manners](e2230.html).

### 1) Train categories

Trains in Japan, from local to shinkansen, are classified typically into the following categories:

* **Local** (普通, futsū-densha or kakueki-teisha)
    
  Local trains stop at every station.
* **Rapid** (快速, kaisoku)
    
  Rapid trains skip some stations. There is no difference in the ticket price between local and rapid trains.
* **Express** (急行, kyūkō)
    
  Express trains stop at even fewer stations than rapid trains. There is generally no difference in the ticket price between local and express trains.
* **Limited Express** (特急, tokkyū)
    
  [Limited express trains](e2016_limited_express.html) stop only at major stations. Many railway companies, including [JR](e2019.html), charge a [supplement fee](e2359_001.html) in addition to the [base fare](e2359_001.html) for riding limited express trains. It is typically between 500 and 4000 yen depending on how far you travel. Other companies don't charge a supplement fee.
* **Super Express** (新幹線, shinkansen)
    
  [Shinkansen](e2018.html) (aka bullet trains) are operated only by [JR](e2019.html) and use separate tracks and platforms. A [supplement fee](e2359_001.html) has to be paid in addition to the [base fare](e2359_001.html). It is typically between 800 and 8000 yen depending on how far you travel.

### 2) Seat categories

On long-distance trains, JR offers the choice between two classes: **ordinary** and **green** (business class) seats. On some [bullet trains](e2018.html) there are furthermore **Gran Class** (first class) seats. Most local trains carry only ordinary cars. Green cars are less crowded and offer more spacious seats, but are typically 30% to 50% more expensive than ordinary cars. Gran Class seats are even more spacious and expensive.

Most [shinkansen](e2018.html) and [limited express](e2016_limited_express.html) trains carry **non-reserved** (jiyū-seki) and **reserved** (shitei-seki) seats, while a few carry only reserved seats. Seats in green cars are often all-reserved. On most local, rapid and express trains all seats are non-reserved. Seat reservations cost roughly 300-900 yen, but are free with the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html).

Signs on the trains and platforms indicate seat categories

### 3) Buying a ticket

Prepaid [IC cards](e2359_003.html), such as Suica and Icoca, simplify the process of using trains a lot. Please [see our page about IC cards](e2359_003.html) for more details. When not using IC cards, travelers can purchase [tickets](e2359.html) for short distance trips at ticket machines, while tickets and seat reservations for long distance trips can be purchased at manned ticket counters or selected ticket machines. Visit our [shinkansen page](e2018.html) for more details about buying tickets for the bullet trains.

#### a) Purchase a ticket at a ticket machine (for short-distance travel)

1. Find your destination and the corresponding fare on the map above the vending machine. The map shows the train lines and stations of the region. Ticket prices are shown beside each station.
2. Insert the money into the vending machine. Most machines accept coins of 10, 50, 100 and 500 yen and bills of 1000 yen. Many machines also accept larger bills.
3. Select the number of tickets that you wish to buy. The default is one, so if you are traveling alone, you can skip this step.
4. Press the button that shows the amount for your ticket, e.g. 200 yen.
5. Collect the ticket(s) and change.

Ticket vending machines with map of lines and stations

Sometimes the station names on the maps are written only in [Japanese](e621.html). If you are unable to find your destination and the corresponding fare, you can purchase a ticket for the lowest possible price, and pay the difference at a fare adjustment machine at the destination station.

#### b) Purchase a ticket at a ticket counter

In order to purchase a [ticket](e2359.html), you need to provide the following information:

* Number of travelers
* Date of travel
* Departure station
* Destination station
* Ordinary or green car
* Preference of reserved or non-reserved seat

If you wish to reserve a seat, you need to provide the following additional information:

* Train name and number OR departure time

If you do not speak [Japanese](e621.html) and there is a lineup, it is recommended that you write the data on a piece of paper and present it to the salesperson in order to make the purchasing process smoother. Special forms for that purpose (some in English) are actually provided at some stations, but are rarely used by customers.

A ticket office

### 4) Entering the paid fare zone

After buying the ticket, you can proceed through the ticket gates. At automatic ticket gates, insert the [ticket](e2359.html) into the slot, walk through the gate and pick up the ticket on the other side. If you insert an invalid ticket, the gate will close and an alarm will sound. If you use an [IC card](e2359_003.html), touch the IC card reader for about a second, instead.

In order to access [shinkansen](e2018.html) platforms, you need to pass through a second or separate set of ticket gates. They are usually well marked.

Ticket gates

### 5) Station platforms

Find your platform by looking for your train line and direction. Most important signs are written in [Japanese](e621.html) and English, and increasingly also in Chinese and Korean.

On many platforms, marks on the floor indicate where the doors of the arriving train will be located. Waiting passengers will line up behind those marks. Train drivers are trained to stop within centimeters.

In case of long distance trains, additional marks will indicate car numbers and whether the car is an ordinary or green car, and whether it carries reserved or non-reserved seats.

Note that some platforms are served by trains of different train categories (e.g. local and rapid trains). Displays indicate the next arriving train's category and - at some stations - the set of upcoming stations served by it.

Marks on the platforms indicate the position of doors for people to line up behind

### 6) Riding the train

Wait for passengers to exit before entering the train. Be careful not to block the door at stations, especially if the train is crowded. Put backpacks onto the baggage shelves or on the floor next to your feet where they do not bother other passengers.

Most passengers on Japanese trains are either reading, sleeping or using their [mobile phones](e2223.html). Talking on mobile phones inside trains, however, is forbidden, except in the entrance sections of shinkansen and limited express trains.

Upcoming stations and connecting lines are announced in [Japanese](e621.html). On [shinkansen](e2018.html) and other lines frequented by foreign visitors, the announcements are also made in English. Newer trains have electronic signs, which display the upcoming station and other useful information.

Inside a train

### 7) At the destination station

The station names on platforms are written in [kanji](e2046.html), [hiragana](e2047.html) and English. The previous and upcoming station names are also shown.

At your destination, leave the paid fare zone through the ticket gates in the same way as you entered. When paying with a single ticket, the ticket is retained in the machine upon exiting.

If you did not pay the correct fare for your destination station, you have to pay the difference at a "Fare Adjustment" machine before leaving through the gates. If there are no such machines, you can pay the difference at the manned gate.

Station sign (left) and fare adjustment machines (right)


[## The Basics about Overtourism in Japan

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2016.html+report+topstory+255+338+0+/news/overtourism.html)

[## Tokyo to Osaka, But Not the Usual Way

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2016.html+report+jrkintetsu+1+11+0+/ad/jr-kintetsu-pearl-route/)

[## Ultimate Guide to Limited Express Trains

Travel Guide

](/link.html?/e/e2016.html+report+topstory+299+390+0+/e/e2016_limited_express.html)

[## Four spots not to miss on the Boso Peninsula

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2016.html+report+chiba+5+15+0+/ad/boso-activities/)

[## 2025 Autumn Color Reports

Travel Report

](/link.html?/e/e2016.html+report+topstory+298+389+0+/blog/koyo25/)

[## 14 years after the tsunami

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2016.html+report+topstory+297+388+0+/blog/recovery/251028.html)

[## A visit to Legoland Resort Nagoya

Traveling with Kids

](/link.html?/e/e2016.html+report+topstory+291+381+0+/blog/traveling-with-kids/250701.html)

[More Stories](/news/s_transport/)

Plan Your Trip:[Transportation](/e/e627.html)

* [Tickets & Passes](/e/e2357.html)
* [Rail Pass Calculator](/railpass/)
* [Trains](/e/e2019.html)

+ [Shinkansen](/e/e2018.html)

- [Tokaido Shinkansen](/e/e2018_tokaido.html)
- [Sanyo Shinkansen](/e/e2018_sanyo.html)
- [Kyushu Shinkansen](/e/e2018_kyushu.html)
- [Nishikyushu Shinkansen](/e/e2018_nishikyushu.html)
- [Tohoku Shinkansen](/e/e2018_tohoku.html)
- [Hokkaido Shinkansen](/e/e2018_hokkaido.html)
- [Joetsu Shinkansen](/e/e2018_joetsu.html)
- [Hokuriku Shinkansen](/e/e2018_nagano.html)

+ [Limited Express Trains](/e/e2016_limited_express.html)
+ [Rail Passes & Tickets](/e/e2359.html)

- [Regular Train Tickets](/e/e2359_001.html)
- [IC cards](/e/e2359_003.html)
- [Rail Passes](/e/e2357.html)
- [Japan Rail Pass (JR Pass)](/e/e2361.html)
- [Railpass Calculator](/railpass/)
- [Seishun 18 Kippu](/e/e2362.html)
- [JR Hokkaido Rail Pass](/e/e2361_01.html)
- [JR Sapporo-Noboribetsu Area Pass](/e/e2361_noboribetsu.html)
- [JR Sapporo-Furano Area Pass](/e/e2361_furano.html)
- [JR Tohoku South Hokkaido Rail Pass](/e/e2361_tohoku_hokkaido.html)
- [JR East South Hokkaido Rail Pass](/e/e2361_southhokkaido.html)
- [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](/e/e2361_tohoku.html)
- [Sendai Area Pass](/e/e2361_sendai.html)
- [JR East Nagano Niigata Area Pass](/e/e2361_nagano_niigata.html)
- [JR Tokyo Wide Pass](/e/e2361_06.html)
- [Mt.Fuji Shizuoka Area Tourist Pass](/e/e2361_fuji_shizuoka.html)
- [Hokuriku Arch Pass](/e/e2361_arch.html)
- [Takayama Hokuriku Tourist Pass](/e/e2361_takayama_hokuriku.html)
- [Alpine Takayama Matsumoto Tourist Pass](/e/e2361_alpen.html)
- [JR Hokuriku Area Pass](/e/e2361_hokuriku.html)
- [JR Kansai Hokuriku Area Pass](/e/e2361_kansai_hokuriku.html)
- [Ise Kumano Wakayama Area Tourist Pass](/e/e2361_ise_kumano.html)
- [Kansai Passes](/e/e2357_kansai.html)
- [JR West One-Way Tickets](/e/e2361_jrwest.html)
- [Kansai Railway Pass](/e/e2357_005.html)
- [JR Kansai Mini Pass](/e/e2361_kansai_mini.html)
- [JR Kansai Area Pass](/e/e2361_03.html)
- [JR Kansai Wide Area Pass](/e/e2361_08.html)
- [Kintetsu Rail Pass](/e/e2357_006.html)
- [JR West All Area Pass](/e/e2361_west.html)
- [JR Kansai Hiroshima Area Pass](/e/e2361_kansai_hiroshima.html)
- [JR Setouchi Area Pass](/e/e2361_setouchi.html)
- [JR Sanyo Sanin Area Pass](/e/e2361_sanyo_sanin.html)
- [JR Sanyo Sanin Northern Kyushu Pass](/e/e2361_sanyo_sanin_kyushu.html)
- [JR Kansai Sanin Pass](/e/e2361_sanin.html)
- [Tottori Matsue Pass](/e/e2361_tottori_matsue.html)
- [JR Hiroshima Yamaguchi Area Pass](/e/e2361_hiroshima_yamaguchi.html)
- [JR Okayama Hiroshima Yamaguchi Area Pass](/e/e2361_okayama_yamaguchi.html)
- [All Shikoku Pass](/e/e2357_shikoku.html)
- [JR Kyushu Rail Pass](/e/e2361_05.html)
- [JR Fukuoka Wide Pass](/e/e2361_fukuoka.html)

+ [Night Trains](/e/e2356.html)
+ [How to use trains](/e/e2016.html)
+ [Train Timetables](/e/e2323.html)
+ [Rush Hours](/e/e2020.html)

* [Flights](/planning/transportation/flights.html)

+ [International Air Travel](/e/e2034.html)
+ [Domestic Air Travel](/e/e2365.html)
+ [Domestic Air Discounts](/e/e2364.html)

* [Buses](/planning/transportation/bus.html)

+ [Local Buses](/e/e2015.html)
+ [Highway Buses](/e/e2366.html)
+ [Sun Q Pass](/e/e2357_014.html)
+ [Timetable: Mount Fuji 5th Station](/bus/fuji.html)
+ [Timetable: Mount Fuji Climbing Season](/bus/fuji_season.html)
+ [Timetable: Gotemba-Kawaguchiko](/bus/gotemba.html)
+ [Timetable: Shirakawago](/bus/shirakawago.html)
+ [Timetable: Gokayama](/bus/gokayama.html)
+ [Timetable: Kiso Valley](/bus/kiso.html)

* [Driving](/e/e2022.html)

+ [Rental Cars](/e/e2024.html)
+ [Expressways](/e/e2354.html)

* [Taxis](/e/e2021.html)
* [Ferries](/e/e2355.html)
* [Bicycles](/e/e2210.html)

[## The Basics about Overtourism in Japan

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2016.html+report+topstory+255+338+0+/news/overtourism.html)

[## Tokyo to Osaka, But Not the Usual Way

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2016.html+report+jrkintetsu+1+11+0+/ad/jr-kintetsu-pearl-route/)

[## Ultimate Guide to Limited Express Trains

Travel Guide

](/link.html?/e/e2016.html+report+topstory+299+390+0+/e/e2016_limited_express.html)

[## Four spots not to miss on the Boso Peninsula

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2016.html+report+chiba+5+15+0+/ad/boso-activities/)

[## 2025 Autumn Color Reports

Travel Report

](/link.html?/e/e2016.html+report+topstory+298+389+0+/blog/koyo25/)

[## 14 years after the tsunami

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2016.html+report+topstory+297+388+0+/blog/recovery/251028.html)

[## A visit to Legoland Resort Nagoya

Traveling with Kids

](/link.html?/e/e2016.html+report+topstory+291+381+0+/blog/traveling-with-kids/250701.html)

[More Stories](/news/s_transport/)