---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2033.html
title: Kansai International Airport (KIX)
description: Visitor guide for Kansai International Airport (KIX) in Osaka, Japan.
keywords: Kansai, International, Airport, japan, osaka, kix
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 3806
char_count: 26229
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:51:56
---

Kansai International Airport (関西空港, Kansai Kūkō, KIX) is one of Japan's most important international [airports](e2034.html). Located on a man-made island about 40 kilometers south of central [Osaka](e2157.html), Kansai Airport was opened in 1994, taking over all international and some of the domestic air traffic formerly handled by Osaka's [Itami Airport](e2433.html).

Kansai Airport has two terminals. **Terminal 1**, the main terminal, is housed in a long, modern building and serves both domestic and international flights by regular airlines. The railway station is located directly adjacent to it. Added in 2012 in a more remote, spartan building, **terminal 2** serves low-cost airlines (LCCs). It has fewer bus connections and no train service, and is connected to terminal 1 and the railway station by a free shuttle bus.

From/To:

Central OsakaKyotoKobeNaraItami Airport

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

"Haruka" [limited express](e2016.html) trains connect [Kansai Airport](e2033.html) with [Tennoji](e4025.html) (30 minutes, 1820 yen by unreserved seat, about 2400 yen by reserved seat), [Osaka Station](e4020.html) (45 minutes, 2380 yen unreserved, about 2900 yen reserved) and Shin-Osaka Station (50 minutes, 2540 yen unreserved, about 3100 yen reserved). Available exclusively to foreign tourists, the [Haruka 1-Way Ticket](e2361_jrwest.html) is a discount offer that allows you to use the Haruka between the airport and Osaka for only 1300 yen (to Tennoji) or 1800 yen (to Osaka or Shin-Osaka).

[Book Now](/rail.html?origin=Osaka&destination=Kansai-Airport)

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

[Rapid](e2016.html) trains connect the airport with Tennoji Station (50 minutes, 1060 yen) and Osaka Station (70 minutes, 1180 yen).

"Rap:t" limited express trains by Nankai Railway take 35-40 minutes and cost 1490 yen from [Kansai Airport](e2033.html) to [Namba Station](e4001.html). Seat reservations are mandatory. Discounted tickets that cost only 1300 yen are available through [Klook](https://www.klook.com/activity/599-kansai-airport-namba-train-ticket-osaka/?aid=12675).

Express trains by Nankai Railway make the trip between [Kansai Airport](e2033.html) and [Namba Station](e4001.html) in 45-50 minutes and cost 970 yen one way. Seat reservations are not possible.

There are direct buses from [Kansai Airport](e2033.html) to various places and hotels in Osaka, including Osaka Station (60 minutes, 1800 yen) and Namba Station (45 minutes, 1300 yen). It is possible to purchase tickets online via [Klook](https://www.klook.com/activity/18203-kansai-airport-one-way-transfer-osaka/?aid=12675).

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

### Means of access to/from Kansai Airport

* 

  JR Limited Express "Haruka"

  About 2000 yen, 30 minutes to Tennoji  
  About 2500 yen, 45 minutes to Osaka Station  
  About 2700 yen, 50 minutes to Shin-Osaka  
  About 3000 yen, 70 minutes to Kyoto  
  Departures every 30 minutes

  The Haruka is a comfortable [train](e2019.html) for travelers to and from the airport, which connects to [Tennoji](e4025.html) (a large station in southern Osaka), [Osaka Station](e4020.html), Shin-Osaka (the [shinkansen](e2018.html) station of Osaka) and Kyoto. Reserved and non-reserved seats are available. Thanks to the [Haruka 1-Way Ticket](e2361_jrwest.html) discount offer for foreign tourists, the Haruka can also be a relatively economical option.
* 

  JR Kansai Airport Rapid

  1060 yen, 50 minutes to Tennoji  
  1180 yen, 70 minutes to Osaka  
  Departures every 15 minutes

  The JR Airport Line is the inexpensive JR alternative to the Haruka limited express between the airport and central [Osaka](e2157.html), serving [Tennoji](e4025.html), Osaka and other major stations on the Osaka Loop Line. It cuts the ticket price in half, but increases the traveling time by about 15 minutes. Unlike the Haruka, it is a normal commuter train which stops a few times between the airport and Osaka and can become crowded during rush hours.
* 

  Nankai "Rapi:t"

  1490 yen, 35 minutes to Namba  
  Departures every 30 minutes

  The Nankai "Rapi:t Alpha" and "Rapi:t Beta" trains are limited express trains which connect the airport with [Namba](e4001.html), the heart of [Osaka](e2157.html)'s southern city center. Beta trains stop at two more stations than Alpha trains and are, therefore, slightly slower. Both are comfortable trains especially for travelers to and from the airport. All seats are reserved. Discounted tickets can be purchased through [Klook](https://www.klook.com/activity/599-kansai-airport-namba-train-ticket-osaka/?aid=12675).
* 

  Nankai Airport Express

  970 yen, 45 minutes to Namba  
  Departures every 15 minutes

  The Nankai Airport Express, also connecting the airport with [Namba](e4001.html), is the cheaper but slower alternative to the "Rapi:t" trains. Unlike the "Rapi:t" trains, these trains are normal commuter trains which stop more frequently and can become crowded during rush hours.
* 

  Airport Limousine Bus

  About 1500 yen, 60 minutes to central Osaka  
  2600 yen, 100 minutes to Kyoto  
  2000 yen, 75 minutes to Kobe

  Airport buses connect Kansai Airport with various places and hotels in Osaka, Kyoto, Kobe and other places in the [Kansai Region](/list/e1105.html). It is possible to purchase tickets online via [Klook](https://www.klook.com/activity/18203-kansai-airport-one-way-transfer-osaka/?aid=12675).
* 

  Taxi and airport transfers

  Taxi: about 15,000 yen (18,000 yen late night), 50 minutes to central Osaka

  Because Kansai Airport is located about 50 km outside of Osaka, a [taxi](e2021.html) ride into the city center is rather expensive. Alternatively, there exist a wide range of private and shared airport transfer services, many of which include meet and greet services and English speaking drivers. Among the travel websites allowing for reservations of such services with instant confirmation is [Klook](https://www.klook.com/airport-transfers/service/kix-kansai-international-airport?aid=12675).
* 

  Ferry

  1880 yen, 30 minutes to Kobe Airport

  A high speed ferry connects Kansai Airport with [Kobe Airport](e2432.html). A shuttle bus connects the airport terminal with the ferry pier.

### Late night and early morning flights

Travelers with flights departing in the early morning (before 8:00) or arriving in the late evening (after 22:00) should take note that all [trains](e2019.html) and most [buses](e2015.html) do not operate overnight. [Taxis](e2021.html) remain available, but are an expensive option with fares to Osaka starting around 18,000 yen. Affected travelers are advised to stay at a [hotel](#hotel) in the vicinity of the airport, instead.

#### Late night transportation

The last train out of Kansai Airport to Osaka's [Namba](e4001.html) area departs just before midnight, while the last trains with connections to [Osaka Station](e4020.html) and [Kyoto](e2158.html) depart already around 11pm. Likewise, most last buses depart the airport around 23:00 or midnight.

#### Early morning transportation

The first train connections in the morning from Osaka reach the airport around 6:00, while those from Kyoto do so about an hour later. Early morning buses generally also start arriving around 6:00.

#### Hotels around the airport

Kansai Airport is open 24 hours, and it is possible for [budget travelers](e2028.html) to spend their first or last night there. Both terminals offer a variety of 24 hour facilities such as [convenience stores](e2071.html), fast food and restaurants, while terminal 1 additionally offers showers, a paid airport lounge and an internet cafe.

There are a couple of hotels located in the immediate vicinity of the airport:

* [Hotel Nikko Kansai Airport](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/nikko-kansai-airport.html?aid=371183) (regular hotel, adjacent to terminal 1)
* [First Cabin Kansai Airport](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/huasutokiyabinguan-xi-kong-gang.html?aid=371183) (capsule hotel, adjacent to terminal 1)

Several more accommodation options are available around Rinku Town Station, a short train (5 minutes, 370 yen) or taxi ride (about 2500-3500 yen) away. Some hotels offer free shuttle bus services to/from the airport:

* [OMO Kansai Airport](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/omo-kansai-airport-by-hoshino-resorts.html?aid=371183) (regular hotel)
* [Kansai Airport Washington Hotel](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/kansai-airport-washington.html?aid=371183) (regular hotel, free shuttle bus 5:20 to 23:35)
* [Henn na Resort & Spa Kansai Airport](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/bian-nahoteru-guan-xi-kong-gang.html?aid=371183) (robot-run hotel)
* [Hatago Inn Kansai Airport](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/hatagoin-kansai-kuko.html?aid=371183) (regular hotel)

Hotel Nikko Kansai Airport is directly connected with the terminal 1 building

### Sightseeing attractions around the airport

* 

  Sky View Observation Hall

  Hours: 10:00 to 17:00, free entry  
  Free shuttle bus from terminal 1 departs every 30 minutes

  The Sky View Observation Hall is an airport museum and observation deck. Its close proximity to one of the runways affords visitors excellent views of the planes taking off and landing at Kansai Airport. The hall is located near the ferry terminal building and is accessible in 8 minutes by free shuttle buses from terminal 1.
* 

  Rinku Town

  Hours: typically 10:00 to 20:00 (shops), 11:00 to 22:00 (restaurants)  
  Access by train (370 yen one way) or shuttle bus (300 yen)

  Rinku Town is a shopping district with a large variety of shops, restaurants and other attractions. Some of the larger complexes include Seacle, a large shopping mall with a kids theme park, [hot spring](e2292.html) and ferris wheel; the [Rinku Premium Outlets](e2451.html#rinku) with over 200 brand name outlet shops and restaurants; and an Aeon shopping mall a little further away from Rinku Town Station.