---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2466.html
title: Best Scenic Rides in Japan
description: A list of scenic train, boat, ropeway and car rides in Japan.
keywords: japan, scenic, train, ropeway, cable, car, cruise, river, lake
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 1385
char_count: 9969
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:42:36
---

Japan offers many beautiful coastlines, mountains and gorges. While some of these natural treasures are difficult to access, others can be enjoyed comfortably and without much effort from [trains](e2019.html), boats, ropeways and [cars](e2024.html). The following is a selection of such scenic rides:

### Railways

From the fast [shinkansen](e2018.html) to local lines, [trains](e2019.html) are one of the most convenient modes of transport in Japan. Among the hundreds of train lines covering the country, there are several that are known specifically for the scenic views along the way.

* 

  [Toyama Prefecture](/list/e1219.html)

  [Kurobe Gorge Railway•](e7575.html)

  The [Kurobe Gorge Railway](e7575.html) was built for the construction and maintenenace of the [Kurobe Dam](e7550.html) and multiple electric power plants, but is now also a sightseeing train through the Kurobe Gorge, a beautiful, forested ravine in the rugged mountains of the [Northern Japan Alps](e6043.html). Covering about 20 kilometers, the 80-minute journey leads across more than 20 bridges, through over 40 tunnels and offers visitors panoramic views of the gorge and river below.
* 

  [Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)

  [Sagano Railway](e3965.html)

  The [Sagano Scenic Railway](e3965.html) is a sightseeing train that runs along the [Hozugawa River](e3966.html) between [Arashiyama](e3912.html) and Kameoka. The train travels at a relatively slow pace taking about 25 minutes for the seven kilometer journey. Views along the line change with the seasons and the train is particularly popular during the autumn when the leaves along the ravine [change color](e2014.html).
* 

  [Hakone](/e/e5200.html)

  [Hakone Tozan Railway](e5202.html)

  The [Hakone Tozan Railway](e5202.html), Japan's oldest mountain railway, winds through a narrow and densely wooded valley over many bridges and tunnels, and changes directions at three switchbacks. The section between Hakone-Yumoto and Gora is especially beautiful in June and July when thousands of [hydrangeas](e2423.html) are in bloom along the tracks.

### Boats

Boat rides are a great way of seeing the waterways and coastlines of Japan. Cruises by traditional flat-bottomed boats ply along several picturesque rivers, while larger sightseeing boats explore lakes and coastlines.

* 

  [Abashiri](/e/e6865.html)

  [Drift Ice Cruises•](e6868.html)

  The [Abashiri Drift Ice](e6868.html) cruises are offered from late January to late March. They take about an hour and travels out into the Sea of Okhotsk, offering visitors a chance to see [drift ice](e2269.html) in the open water.
* 

  [Shiretoko](/e/e6850.html)

  [Shiretoko Sightseeing Boats•](e6852.html)

  [Sightseeing boat cruises](e6852.html) are operated along the rugged western coast of the [Shiretoko Peninsula](e6850.html) from mid April to mid November. These cruises are the best way to view the peninsula's dramatic coastline with its tall cliffs and waterfalls. Another highlight of these cruises is the variety of wildlife that can be seen, such as brown bears, deer, foxes, whales, dolphins, sea lions and sea birds.
* 

  [Matsushima](/e/e5100.html)

  [Matsushima Bay Cruises•](e5101.html)

  A cruise is a good way to enjoy [Matsushima Bay](e5101.html), one of [Japan's three most scenic views](e2250.html). These cruises bring you closer to the many small islands dotting the bay. There are multiple companies offering various courses, some starting and ending at [Matsushima](e5100.html), others that connect Matsushima with the nearby [Shiogama](e5041.html).
* 

  [Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)

  [Hozugawa River Cruise](e3966.html)

  The [Hozugawa River Cruise](e3966.html) is a sightseeing boat ride down the Hozugawa River from Kameoka to [Arashiyama](e3912.html) in traditional flat bottomed boats. The cruise takes about two hours to travel down the river and is a relaxing way to see the natural scenery of the largely undeveloped ravine. Note that cruises may be cancelled in case of inclement weather.
* 

  [Hiraizumi](/e/e5000.html)

  [Geibikei Boat Tour](e5006.html)

  A flat-bottomed boat ride into the [Geibikei](e5006.html), a spectacular gorge outside [Hiraizumi](e5000.html) in [Iwate Prefecture](/list/e1204.html). It leads about one kilometer into the gorge and back, and passengers can leave the boat for about 15-20 minutes to walk further into the gorge at the turning point. Scenery along the gorge is attractive at any time of the year but particularly so during the [fall color](e2014.html) season.
* 

  [Kinugawa Onsen](/e/e3875.html)

  [Kinugawa River Cruise](e3881.html)

  The [Kinugawa River Cruise](e3881.html) is a ride down Kinugawa River in flat bottomed, wooden boats and travels through mostly undeveloped stretches of the river. Boatmen provide commentary and explanations of the scenery along the 40-minute cruises. Note that cruises may be canceled in case of inclement weather.
* 

  [Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)

  [Tokyo Water Bus](e3042.html)

  The [Water Bus](e3042.html) in [Tokyo](e2164.html) is a convenient alternative to [trains](e2019.html) and subways when visiting destinations that are near the water, especially the man made islands of Tokyo Bay. Visitors will be able to experience seeing Tokyo from a different angle and pass under the various bridges spanning the rivers and waterways.

### Ropeways and cablecars

Ropeways and cablecars are a convenient means of accessing mountainous terrain without having to hike up. Thanks to the high elevation, visitors are usually treated to great views.

* 

  [Toyama Prefecture](/list/e1219.html)

  [Tateyama Kurobe Alpine Route••](e7550.html)

  The [Tateyama Kurobe Alpine Route](e7550.html) is a unique sightseeing route through the [Northern Japan Alps](e6043.html) that connects [Toyama City](e7500.html) in [Toyama Prefecture](/list/e1219.html) with Omachi Town in [Nagano Prefecture](/list/e1216.html). The route is traversed by various means of transportation including cablecars, a ropeway and trolley buses, and offers spectacular scenery of the Tateyama Mountain Range.
* 

  [Minakami](/e/e7460.html)

  [Tanigawa Ropeway•](e7462.html)

  The [Tanigawadake Ropeway](e7462.html) lifts visitors from the base of [Mount Tanigawa](e7462.html) to the upper station halfway up the mountain from where views of the surrounding scenery can be enjoyed. It is particularly popular during the [autumn color](e2014.html) season.
* 

  [Okuhida](/e/e5940.html)

  [Shinhotaka Ropeway](e5943.html)

  The [Shinhotaka Ropeway](e5943.html) is unique for using double decker gondolas to carry up passengers over 1000 meters into the high elevations of the [Northern Japan Alps](e6043.html). The journey along the ropeway and the observation deck at the upper station offer excellent views.
* 

  [Kobe](/e/e2159.html)

  [Kobe Nunobiki Ropeway](e3563.html)

  The [Kobe Nunobiki Ropeway](e3563.html) lifts visitors up the slopes of the [Rokko mountain chain](e3557.html). Great views of the city of [Kobe](e2159.html) can be enjoyed from the gondolas and from an observation deck beside the top station. The night views are considered among the best of Japan.

### Roads

Dozens of roads for the specific purpose of sightseeing have been built in scenic places across Japan, especially in the mountains and along coastlines. While some of them are toll roads and restricted to cars, others are free to use and also enjoyable for [cyclists](e2210.html).

* 

  [Fukushima](/e/e7725.html)

  [Bandai Azuma Skyline•](e7754.html)

  The [Bandai Azuma Skyline](e7754.html) is one of Japan's most spectacular mountain roads. The former toll road starts in [Fukushima City](e7725.html) and winds into the high elevations of eastern Mount Azuma before descending towards the [Urabandai](e7752.html) region. It provides outstanding views of beautiful landscapes and volcanic scenery and is especially popular when the [autumn colors](e2014.html) are at their best.
* 

  [Hakusan](/e/e4284.html)

  [Hakusan Shirakawago White Road•](e4286.html)

  The [Hakusan Shirakawago White Road](e4286.html) is a 33.3 kilometer winding mountain toll road that connects [Hakusan City](e4284.html) in [Ishikawa Prefecture](/list/e1222.html) with [Shirakawa-go](e5950.html) in [Gifu Prefecture](/list/e1220.html). Along the route are panoramic views, hiking trails, [hot springs](e2992.html) and a variety of waterfalls. One of the best times to drive along the road is in the autumn when the surrounding trees are ablaze with [autumn colors](e2014.html).
* 

  [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html)

  [Yamanami Highway•](e4571.html)

  The [Trans Kyushu Route](e4571.html) between [Kumamoto](e4500.html) on the west coast and [Beppu](e4700.html) on the east coast is a highly recommended way to experience [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html)'s rural countryside, hot springs and volcanic terrain. The Yamanami Highway makes up a large part of the route and offers scenic views of rolling hills and volcanoes along the way. The route can be also enjoyed by [public transportation](e627.html).
* 

  Nagano, Gunma and Tochigi Prefectures

  [Japan Romantic Road](e7450.html)

  Japan's version of Germany's "Romantic Road" leads over 350 kilometers across three prefectures ([Nagano](/list/e1216.html), [Gunma](/list/e1209.html) and [Tochigi](/list/e1210.html)). The route passes through various interesting towns, [hot spring](e2292.html) resorts and natural scenery, including [Karuizawa](e6030.html), [Kusatsu](e7400.html) and [Nikko](e3800.html).
* 

  [Boso Peninsula](/e/e6430.html)

  [Boso Flower Line](e6435.html)

  The [Boso Flower Line](e6435.html) is a road that follows the southern coast of the [Boso Peninsula](e6430.html) between [Tateyama](e6434.html) and Chikura. Several [flower](e2423.html) farms and parks are located along the road which are particularly pretty from January to April.
* 

  [Sado Island](/e/e7675.html)

  [Osado Skyline](e7683.html)

  The [Osado Skyline](e7683.html) is a scenic road through the Osado Mountains of northern [Sado Island](e7675.html). The skyline is a windy, toll-free mountain road that takes about one hour to drive and offers panoramic views of the island from a number of vantage points. Visitors can also reach the summit of Kinpokusan, Sado Island's highest peak, in about a 90-minute walk from the rest area along the skyline.

### Cycling

With its varied geography and extensive road network, Japan is a highly attractive country for both multi-day cycling tours and short [bicycle](e2210.html) excursions.

* 

  [Onomichi](/e/e3475.html)

  [Shimanami Kaido•](e3478.html)

  Cycling is a popular means of experiencing the [Shimanami Kaido](e3478.html), a 60-kilometer long toll road across the [Seto Island Sea](e5445.html), which traverses six islands between [Onomichi](e3475.html) and Imabari. In addition to the scenery, the islands offer several attractions, such as [temples](e2058.html) and museums.
* 

  [Okayama](/e/e5700.html)

  [Kibi Plain•](e5705.html)

  A popular 17 kilometer cycling route leads through the [Kibi Plain](e5705.html), a rural flatland just outside of central [Okayama City](e5700.html). The route loosely follows the legend of Prince Kibitsuhiko and passes several important [shrines](e2059.html), [temples](e2058.html) and burial mounds along the way. The route also passes through rice fields which allows for picturesque views of the rural countryside.
* 

  [Hida Furukawa](/e/e5975.html)

  [Kamioka Railway Cycling](e5981.html)

  [Rail-MTB Gattan Go](e5981.html) is an exciting activity in Kamioka near [Furukawa](e5975.html) and [Okuhida](e5940.html) that allows visitors to ride on electrically assisted bicycles on the tracks of the abandoned Kamioka Railway.


[## The Basics about Overtourism in Japan

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2466.html+report+topstory+255+338+0+/news/overtourism.html)

[## Tokyo to Osaka, But Not the Usual Way

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2466.html+report+jrkintetsu+1+11+0+/ad/jr-kintetsu-pearl-route/)

[## Ultimate Guide to Limited Express Trains

Travel Guide

](/link.html?/e/e2466.html+report+topstory+299+390+0+/e/e2016_limited_express.html)

[## Four spots not to miss on the Boso Peninsula

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2466.html+report+chiba+5+15+0+/ad/boso-activities/)

[## 2025 Autumn Color Reports

Travel Report

](/link.html?/e/e2466.html+report+topstory+298+389+0+/blog/koyo25/)

[## 14 years after the tsunami

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2466.html+report+topstory+297+388+0+/blog/recovery/251028.html)

[## A visit to Legoland Resort Nagoya

Traveling with Kids

](/link.html?/e/e2466.html+report+topstory+291+381+0+/blog/traveling-with-kids/250701.html)

[## The Basics about Overtourism in Japan

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2466.html+report+topstory+255+338+0+/news/overtourism.html)

[## Tokyo to Osaka, But Not the Usual Way

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2466.html+report+jrkintetsu+1+11+0+/ad/jr-kintetsu-pearl-route/)

[## Ultimate Guide to Limited Express Trains

Travel Guide

](/link.html?/e/e2466.html+report+topstory+299+390+0+/e/e2016_limited_express.html)

[## Four spots not to miss on the Boso Peninsula

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2466.html+report+chiba+5+15+0+/ad/boso-activities/)

[## 2025 Autumn Color Reports

Travel Report

](/link.html?/e/e2466.html+report+topstory+298+389+0+/blog/koyo25/)

[## 14 years after the tsunami

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2466.html+report+topstory+297+388+0+/blog/recovery/251028.html)

[## A visit to Legoland Resort Nagoya

Traveling with Kids

](/link.html?/e/e2466.html+report+topstory+291+381+0+/blog/traveling-with-kids/250701.html)