---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2172.html
title: Mount Fuji Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Mount Fuji in Japan.
keywords: mount, fuji, fujisan, fujiyama, travel, guide, sightseeing, tourist, tourism, visitor, information
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 2217
char_count: 15130
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:40:35
---

Mount Fuji (富士山, Fujisan) is with 3776 meters Japan's highest mountain. It is not surprising that the nearly perfectly shaped [volcano](e2327.html) has been worshiped as a sacred mountain and experienced big popularity among [artists](e639.html) and common people throughout the centuries.

Mount Fuji is an active volcano, which most recently erupted in 1707. It stands on the border between [Yamanashi](/list/e1217.html) and [Shizuoka](/list/e1218.html) prefectures and [can be seen](e6933.html) from [Tokyo](e2164.html) and [Yokohama](e2156.html) on clear days.

Another easy way to [view Mount Fuji](e6933.html) is from the [train](e2019.html) on a trip between Tokyo and Osaka. If you take the [Tokaido Shinkansen](e2018_tokaido.html) from [Tokyo](e2164.html) in the direction of [Nagoya](e2155.html), [Kyoto](e2158.html) and [Osaka](e2157.html), the best view of the mountain can be enjoyed from around Shin-Fuji Station on the right hand side of the train, about 40-45 minutes into the journey.

Note however, that clouds and poor visibility often block the view of Mount Fuji, and you have to consider yourself lucky if you get a clear view of the mountain. Visibility tends to be better during the colder seasons of the year than in summer, and in the early morning and late evening hours than during the middle of the day.

If you want to enjoy Mount Fuji at a more leisurely pace and from a nice natural surrounding, you should head to the [Fuji Five Lake](e6900.html) (Fujigoko) region at the northern foot of the mountain, or to [Hakone](e5200.html), a nearby [hot spring](e2292.html) resort. Mount Fuji is officially open for [climbing](e6901.html) during July and August via several routes.

* [](/e/e6901.html)

  1

  Hiking

  [Climbing Mount Fuji••](/e/e6901.html)

  A guide to climbing Mount Fuji.

  4.5

  

  849
* [](/e/e6928.html)

  2

  Hiking

  [Subashiri 5th Station](/e/e6928.html)

  5th Station on the eastern slope of Mount Fuji.

  4.0

  

  51
* [](/e/e6930.html)

  3

  Hiking

  [Fujinomiya 5th Station](/e/e6930.html)

  5th Station on the southern slope of Mount Fuji.

  3.5

  

  224
* [](/e/e6922.html)

  4

  Hiking

  [Subaru Line 5th Station](/e/e6922.html)

  Most popular of the mountain's 5th stations.

  3.5

  

  416
* [](/e/e6931.html)

  5

  Ski Resort

  [Fujiten Snow Resort](/e/e6931.html)

  Small snow resort at the base of Mount Fuji.

  3.3

  

  40
* [](/e/e6929.html)

  6

  Hiking

  [Gotemba 5th Station](/e/e6929.html)

  The lowest of Mount Fuji's 5th stations.

  3.2

  

  134
* [](/e/e6932.html)

  7

  Ski Resort

  [Snow Town Yeti](/e/e6932.html)

  Small ski resort on the south of Mount Fuji.

  22

Around the mountain

* [](/e/e6900.html)

  1

  [Fuji Five Lakes•](/e/e6900.html)

  Lake resort at the foot of Mount Fuji.

  4.1

  

  2,734
* [](/e/e5200.html)

  2

  [Hakone•](/e/e5200.html)

  National park with views of Mount Fuji.

  4.1

  

  3,450
* [](/e/e6365.html)

  3

  [Fujinomiya](/e/e6365.html)

  City at the southern base of Mount Fuji.

  3.2

  

  271

[

From where to view Mount Fuji](/e/e6933.html)

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Mount Fuji](/e/e2172.html)

[Getting to and around Mount Fuji](/e/e6905.html)
[See access info](/e/e6905.html)

Getting In:

[Mount Fuji Buses (Season)](/bus/fuji_season.html)
[Mount Fuji Buses (Off-season)](/bus/fuji.html)
[Gotemba-Kawaguchiko](/bus/gotemba.html)