---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2435.html
title: New Chitose Airport (Shin-Chitose Airport, CTS)
description: Visitor guide for Hokkaido's New Chitose Airport (Shin-Chitose Airport), one of the busiest airports in Japan.
keywords: airport, new, chitose, shin-chitose, sapporo, CTS, hokkaido
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 2041
char_count: 14112
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:12:35
---

New Chitose Airport (新千歳空港, Shin-Chitose Kūkō, CTS) is the main airport of [Sapporo](e2163.html), located about 50 kilometers south-east of the city center. It is one of the busiest airports in Japan and serves the world's most traveled air route between [Tokyo](e2164.html) and [Sapporo](e2163.html) in addition to many other domestic routes and a few international and chartered flights. Sapporo has another airport, Okadama Airport, in a more central location, but it serves only a small number of flights to locations within [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html).

From/To:

SapporoOtaruNoboribetsuLake ToyaLake ShikotsuNiseko and Rusutsu

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

[New Chitose Airport](e2435.html) and [Sapporo Station](e5315.html) are connected by frequently departing JR [rapid trains](e2016.html) (35 minutes, 1230 yen one way). Seat reservations are optional and cost an additional 840 yen. The trains are covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and [Hokkaido Rail Pass](e2361_01.html).

Buses operate every 15 minutes between the airport and various places in downtown [Sapporo](e2163.html), including [Susukino](e5305.html), [Odori Park](e5301.html) and [Sapporo Station](e5315.html). Some of the buses also serve selected hotels in the city. The one way trip takes about 70-90 minutes and costs 1300 yen.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

Observation deck at New Chitose Airport

### What to see at the airport

The airport was recently renovated and expanded. Its newly added complex offers many attractive shopping, dining and entertainment facilities, making it one of the most pleasant airports in Japan.

One unique feature is the New Chitose Airport Onsen, a [hot spring](e2292.html) bathhouse situated in the terminal building itself, albeit without views of the airplanes. Instead, the planes can be observed from a free observation deck. Two hotels inside the airport, the [Air Terminal Hotel](http://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/air-terminal.html?aid=371183) and [Portom International Hokkaido](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/portom-international-hokkaido.html?aid=371183), offer convenient [accommodation](e2025.html) for those with early departures or late arrivals.

The Doraemon Wakuwaku Skypark features a kids' playground, an amusement corner with game machines, a cafe and a souvenir shop, all under the theme of the world renowned [animation](e2070.html) character Doraemon. At Royce' Chocolate World, visitors are able to observe the mechanized making of chocolates from the popular confectioner and shop from its wide selection of products.

Royce Chocolate World

Airport visitors also have a wide range of dining choices. In addition to a food court there are two themed food zones: the Hokkaido Ramen Dojo where diners can select [ramen](e2042.html) dishes from multiple shops across Hokkaido, and the Streetcar Dining District, which is nostalgically themed after the Sapporo of past decades and features various [Hokkaido specialties](e5312.html). Multiple souvenir shops provide ample opportunities for some last-minute shopping.

And even more shopping is found just outside of the airport complex at the **Rera Chitose Outlet Mall** with hundreds of international and local brands on sale. The [outlet mall](e2451.html) can be reached in a ten minute ride by free shuttle bus or in a short walk from Minami-Chitose Station.

Streetcar Dining District at New Chitose Airport