---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2465.html
title: Industry and Commerce
description: A traveler's guide to industrial tourism in Japan.
keywords: japan, industry, industrial, rourism, tourist, sites, factories, transport, mines, musems
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 1943
char_count: 13560
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:42:32
---

Japan did not start large-scale industrialization until the country faced the threat of Western imperialism in the [second half of the 19th century](e2128.html). In order to remain independent and catch up with the West, Japan successfully undertook an industrial revolution that made it the first industrialized country in Asia over the period of just half a century.

In 2014, the [Tomioka Silk Factory](e7417.html) was designated a [Word Heritage Site](e2251.html), representing the revolution of Japan's silk industry, the country's leading industry for many decades before World War 2. One year later, over a dozen industrial sites across Japan received World Heritage status as the [Sites of Japan's Meiji Industrial Revolution](e2252.html), illustrating the country's path to become a major industrial power during the [Meiji Period](e2130.html) (1868-1912).

Today, tourists can find a variety of industry-related attractions across Japan, ranging from historic [mines](#mining), [automobile](#auto) and [train](#transport) museums to [breweries and distilleries](#food) and [robots](#robots). Below are some highlights of Japan's industrial tourism:

### Robots

* 

  [Odaiba, Tokyo](e3008.html)

  [National Museum of Emerging Science](e3008.html#science)

  Also known as the Miraikan, this well done, highly interactive and bilingual science museum includes a robotics section with several robots and androids on display.
* 

  [Huis Ten Bosch and other locations](e4477.html)

  Henn-na Hotel

  Human contact is minimal at the futuristic Henn-na Hotel (lit. "strange hotel"), as most of the tasks from check-in to porter services are handled by various types of robots. The first Henn-na Hotel opened at [Huis Ten Bosch](e4477.html), a theme park near [Nagasaki](e2162.html). Several more opened afterwards in different parts of the country.

### Automobiles

* 

  [Nagoya](e2155.html)

  [Toyota-related museums](e3308.html)

  Toyota, Japan's leading car manufacturer, has its [headquarters](e3308.html) in the city of Toyota, less than one hour east of central [Nagoya](e2155.html). There are several [museums](e3308.html) in Nagoya where visitors can learn about the history of the company and view new and old Toyota car models.
* 

  [Hiroshima](e2160.html)

  [Mazda Museum](e3405.html)

  The Mazda Motor Corporation was founded in [Hiroshima](e2160.html) in 1920 and still retains its corporate headquarters in the city. The [Mazda Museum](e3405.html) offers an overview of Mazda's history, the technology of its automobiles and future developments.

### Mining

* 

  [Nagasaki](e2162.html)

  [Gunkanjima](e4414.html)

  [Gunkanjima](e4414.html), formally known as Hashima Island, is an abandoned island located about 20 kilometers from [Nagasaki](e2162.html) Port. The island served as a coal mine until 1974 when the mines were closed and everyone left, leaving the island in a state frozen in time. Visitors can visit Gunkanjima by joining a sightseeing tour.
* 

  [Shimane Prefecture](/list/e1237.html)

  [Iwami Ginzan](e5850.html)

  At its peak, [Iwami Ginzan](e5850.html) in [Shimane Prefecture](/list/e1237.html) was one of the top producing silver mines in the world. It had a yearly output of 38 tons of silver, making up approximately a third of the world's production at the time. Silver from the mine was of exceptionally high quality, and control of the mine was acquired by the [Tokugawa Shogunate](e2128.html) in the early 1600s. A section of the [mine](e5852.html) as well as a few other historic buildings are open to the public.
* 

  [Sado Island](e7675.html)

  [Sado Kinzan Gold Mine](e7678.html)

  Designated as [World Heritage Sites](e2251.html) in 2024, the [Sado Kinzan](e7678.html) on [Sado Island](e7675.html) used to be the most productive gold mine in Japan, producing nearly 400 kg of gold annually as well as smaller amounts of silver and copper. The gold mine ended operations in 1989. It is now open to the public with two walking courses that lead through the mining tunnels.
* 

  [Iwaki](e7775.html)

  [Iwaki Coal and Fossil Museum](e7779.html)

  Coal mining was the main industry in [Iwaki](e7775.html) until the 1960s, and the [Iwaki Coal and Fossil Museum](e7779.html) commemorates that history. The museum simulates the experience of going deep underground into a coal mine, and visitors can learn about the working conditions of the miners in the past as well as how coal was collected over the years. There is also an extensive collection of fossils from all over the world at the museum including one that was excavated in Iwaki in 1968.
* 

  Fukuoka and Kumamoto Prefectures

  [Miike Coal Mines](e4895.html)

  The [Miike Coal Mines](e4895.html) were established along the Ariake Sea in the [Meiji Period](e2130.html). The two best preserved of them, Manda and Miyanohara, have been designated as [World Heritage Sites](e2251.html). The Manda mine, in particular, preserves not only the elevator structures but several other surrounding brick buildings.

### Heavy industries

* 

  [Kamaishi](e5046.html)

  [Kamaishi Iron History Museum](e5030.html)

  The [Iron and Steel Museum](e5030.html) commemorates the history of the iron industry in [Kamaishi City](e5046.html). The city became a major producer of iron and steel after magnetite was discovered there in the 18th century and Japan's first blast furnace was constructed in the 19th century.
* 

  [Seto Inland Sea](e5445.html)

  [Inujima Island](e5725.html)

  [Inujima](e5725.html) is a small island off [Okayama](e5700.html) in the [Seto Inland Sea](e5445.html) that originally produced granite blocks for [castle](e2296.html) construction during the [feudal age](e2128.html) and later was the site of a copper refinery. The refinery ruins still characterize Inujima's landscape and are now home to the [Inujima Seirensho Art Museum](e5725.html), a fascinating [contemporary art](e2115.html) site.
* 

  [Kitakyushu](e4875.html)

  [Imperial Steel Works](e4882.html)

  The state-owned [Imperial Steel Works](e4882.html) in Yawata, [Kitakyushu](e4875.html), were built towards the end of the [Meiji Period](e2130.html) and played a major role in the development of the modern steel industry in Japan. The complex still operates under a private owner today and is not accessible to visitors, but the nearby, preserved Higashida Daiichi blast furnaces can be inspected by tourists.

### Textiles

* 

  [Tomioka](e7415.html)

  [Tomioka Silk Mill](e7417.html)

  [Tomioka Silk Mill](e7417.html), a [UNESCO World Heritage Site](e2251.html), was established in 1872 as Japan's first modern silk factory. The silk mill played a crucial role in making Japanese silk a major international trade commodity and establishing the textile industry as the country's most important industry. Visitors to the mill can view the well preserved buildings and modern silk reeling machines.
* 

  [Yokohama](e2156.html)

  [Yokohama Silk Museum](e3210.html#silk)

  For a long time, silk was one of Japan's most important export products, and a considerable amount of it was shipped out of the port of [Yokohama](e2156.html). The Yokohama Silk Museum illustrates the history of silk, silk garments from Japan and around the world, and silk producing technologies (including live silkworms).

### Food and drink

* 

  [Sapporo](e2163.html)

  [Shiroi Koibito Park](e5307.html)

  The [Shiroi Koibito Park](e5307.html) is a theme park by Ishiya, a chocolate company which is most famous for its flagship product, the Shiroi Koibito cookie. The park consists of a free area with a shop, cafe and restaurant and a paid area with various chocolate related exhibits and, more interestingly, a few large windows through which visitors can observe the cookie production process in the factory.
* 

  [Sapporo](e2163.html)

  [Sapporo Beer Museum](e5300.html)

  [Sapporo Beer](e5300.html), one of the oldest and most popular beer brands in Japan, has been brewed in [Sapporo](e2163.html) since 1877. The [Sapporo Beer Museum](e5300.html) is housed in a former brewery from the [Meiji Period](e2130.html). Visitors to the museum can learn about the history of beer in Japan and the process of beer making. Tastings are also available for a small fee after the exhibitions.
* 

  [Yokohama](e2156.html)

  [Kirin Beer Factory](e3211.html)

  Kirin is one of Japan's main producers of [beer](e2037.html), and the [Kirin Beer Factory](e3211.html) is part of Kirin's brewery in [Yokohama](e2156.html), another city that played a leading role in introducing beer to Japan. The main attraction is a tour of the brewery that includes tasting.
* 

  [Osaka](e2157.html)

  [Asahi Suita Brewery](e4032.html)

  Located in Suita City, just north of central [Osaka](e2157.html), the [Asahi Suita Brewery](e4032.html) offers free tours of its facilities with a tasting session at the end. It is Asahi's oldest brewery.
* 

  [Near Kyoto](e2158.html)

  [Suntory Yamazaki Distillery](e3974.html)

  Founded in 1923 by Torii Shinjiro, the [Suntory Yamazaki Distillery](e3974.html) just outside [Kyoto](e2158.html) is one of the oldest whisky distilleries in Japan. Torii picked Yamazaki as a location for its quality natural waters which play a large role in the flavor of the whisky. Tourists can participate in paid guided tours and view the Suntory Yamazaki museum, however, advance reservations are required.
* 

  [Near Otaru](e6700.html)

  [Nikka Whisky Yoichi Distillery](e6707.html)

  The [Nikka Yoichi Distillery](e6707.html) near [Otaru](e6700.html) in [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html) is another of the oldest whisky distilleries in Japan. The company's founder, Taketsuru Masataka, studied whisky making techniques for several years in Scotland before bringing the craft back to Japan. The distillery offers free guided and self-guided tours and a good museum. Advance reservations are not mandatory.
* 

  [Yokohama](e2156.html)

  [Cup Noodles Museum](e3212.html)

  This fun [museum](e3212.html) follows the history of [instant noodles](e2042.html) with interactive exhibits, modern art and hands on experiences. For a small fee visitors can design their own cup noodles or make instant ramen noodles from scratch (reservations required). There is also a food court that serves noodle dishes from around the world.

### Marine

* 

  [Otaru](e6700.html)

  [Herring Mansions](e6703.html)

  During the peak of the herring fishing industry, large [Herring Mansions](e6703.html) were built by wealthy fishermen to process the fish and as a residence for themselves and their employees. A large preserved herring mansion dating back to the end of the 19th century can be found beside the water about five kilometers outside central [Otaru](e6700.html).
* 

  [Kumano](e4950.html)

  [Taiji Whale Museum](e4956.html)

  Located in a region where whales have been hunted for centuries, the [Taiji Whale Museum](e4956.html) offers information on whales and the whaling industry from both historical and modern points of view. Whaling methods and practices are highlighted by displays, and whale meat is available for purchase in the museum gift shop.
* 

  [Shima Peninsula](e4310.html)

  [Mikimoto Pearl Island](e4306.html)

  The [Mikimoto Pearl Island](e4306.html), located in the Bay of Toba, is an excellent museum about pearls, pearl cultivation and Mikimoto Kokichi, the first person who succeeded in cultivating pearls. There are hourly performances by female pearl divers, known as Ama, who have traditionally been planting and harvesting the oysters (and other seafood), as well as a shop where visitors can view and purchase a wide variety of pearl jewelry.

### Transportation

* 

  [Saitama](e6525.html)

  [The Railway Museum](e6527.html)

  The [Railway Museum](e6527.html) by [JR East](e2019.html) in [Saitama](e6525.html), just north of [Tokyo](e2164.html), recount the history of [railways in Japan](e2019.html). The large museum offers a collection of train cars and locomotives, a diorama and multiple train driving simulators.
* 

  [Nagoya](e2155.html)

  [SCMAGLEV and Railway Park](e3314.html)

  The [SCMAGLEV and Railway Park](e3314.html) was opened in 2011 by [JR Central](e2019.html) outside of central [Nagoya](e2155.html). It covers the history of railways in Japan with an emphasis on [high-speed trains](e2018.html). On display are a number of actual trains, including several generations of shinkansen trains and a maglev train. There are also various simulators and a diorama.
* 

  [Kyoto](e2158.html)

  [Kyoto Railway Museum](e3972.html)

  Located near [Kyoto Station](e3922.html), the [Kyoto Railway Museum](e3972.html) by [JR West](e2019.html) covers the history of railways with actual train cars, interesting explanatory displays, a diorama, trains simulators and Japan's largest collection of steam locomotives.
* 

  [Aomori](e3750.html)

  [Hakkodamaru Memorial Ship](e3756.html)

  The [Hakkodamaru](e3756.html) ferry completed its final voyage between [Aomori](e3750.html) and [Hakodate](e5350.html) in 1988 and is now permanently moored as a museum ship in memorial to the golden age of ferry travel between [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html) and Honshu before the opening of the Seikan Tunnel.
* 

  [Yokohama](e2156.html)

  [NYK Maritime Museum](e3210.html#nyk)

  NYK (Nippon Yusen Kaisha) is one of the world's biggest shipping companies with a long and varied history dating back to the 1880s. The museum outlines the company's history from the [opening of Japan](e2130.html) after the [period of isolation](e2128.html) to NYK's present role in international shipping, illustrating the development of marine technology, commerce and politics along the way.

### Finance

* 

  [Tokyo](e2164.html)

  [Tokyo Stock Exchange](e3033.html#tse)

  The Tokyo Stock Exchange is located close to the [Nihonbashi Bridge](e3033.html) and is open to the public on trading days. Visitors can view the trading center from the visitors' gallery, participate in a simulated stock trading game, and learn about the history of the Japanese securities market at the TSE Historical Museum.
* 

  [Tokyo](e2164.html)

  [Currency Museum](e3033.html#currencymuseum)

  Maintained by the Bank of Japan, the Currency Museum recollects the history of money in Japan and also shows unique examples of money from around the world. The museum is located just across the street from the Bank of Japan's main building in [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s [Nihonbashi](e3033.html) district.

### Environmental issues

* 

  [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html)

  [Minamata City](e4525.html)

  [Minamata](e4525.html) is a city in southern [Kumamoto Prefecture](/list/e1244.html) that became infamous in the 1950s and 1960s through an industrial mercury poisoning disaster. Today there are [memorials and museums](e4527.html) related to [Minamata Disease](e4527.html), a form of mercury poisoning caused by the consumption of contaminated seafood.

### Trade shows

* 

  [Tokyo](e2164.html)

  [Japan Mobility Show](e6460.html)

  Formerly known as Tokyo Motor Show, the [Japan Mobility Show](e6460.html) is one of the world's top car shows, taking place every two years in [Tokyo](e2164.html). It introduces passenger and commercial vehicles, motorcycles and the latest in mobility technology.
* 

  [Tokyo](e2164.html)

  [CEATEC](e3067.html)

  The [Combined Exhibition of Advanced Technologies (CEATEC)](e3067.html) is the largest annual IT and electronics trade show in Japan. It is held in October at the [Makuhari Messe](e3046.html) convention center just outside of central [Tokyo](e2164.html).
* 

  [Tokyo](e2164.html)

  [Tokyo Game Show](e6461.html)

  The [Tokyo Game Show](e6461.html) is an annual trade show for video game developers held at [Makuhari Messe](e3046.html) convention center just outside of Tokyo. It is one of the world's biggest game shows, which companies use as a venue to launch new products and show off their latest innovations and technology.


[## The Basics about Overtourism in Japan

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2465.html+report+topstory+255+338+0+/news/overtourism.html)

[## Tokyo to Osaka, But Not the Usual Way

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2465.html+report+jrkintetsu+1+11+0+/ad/jr-kintetsu-pearl-route/)

[## Ultimate Guide to Limited Express Trains

Travel Guide

](/link.html?/e/e2465.html+report+topstory+299+390+0+/e/e2016_limited_express.html)

[## Four spots not to miss on the Boso Peninsula

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2465.html+report+chiba+5+15+0+/ad/boso-activities/)

[## 2025 Autumn Color Reports

Travel Report

](/link.html?/e/e2465.html+report+topstory+298+389+0+/blog/koyo25/)

[## 14 years after the tsunami

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2465.html+report+topstory+297+388+0+/blog/recovery/251028.html)

[## A visit to Legoland Resort Nagoya

Traveling with Kids

](/link.html?/e/e2465.html+report+topstory+291+381+0+/blog/traveling-with-kids/250701.html)

[## The Basics about Overtourism in Japan

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2465.html+report+topstory+255+338+0+/news/overtourism.html)

[## Tokyo to Osaka, But Not the Usual Way

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2465.html+report+jrkintetsu+1+11+0+/ad/jr-kintetsu-pearl-route/)

[## Ultimate Guide to Limited Express Trains

Travel Guide

](/link.html?/e/e2465.html+report+topstory+299+390+0+/e/e2016_limited_express.html)

[## Four spots not to miss on the Boso Peninsula

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2465.html+report+chiba+5+15+0+/ad/boso-activities/)

[## 2025 Autumn Color Reports

Travel Report

](/link.html?/e/e2465.html+report+topstory+298+389+0+/blog/koyo25/)

[## 14 years after the tsunami

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2465.html+report+topstory+297+388+0+/blog/recovery/251028.html)

[## A visit to Legoland Resort Nagoya

Traveling with Kids

](/link.html?/e/e2465.html+report+topstory+291+381+0+/blog/traveling-with-kids/250701.html)