---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2025.html
title: Accommodation in Japan
description: Tourist's guide to the wide range of accommodation types available in Japan.
keywords: accommodation, hotel, hostel, hotels, hostels, japan, ryokan, lodging, lodgings, japanese
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 647
char_count: 4807
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:40:48
---

Japan offers a wide range of accommodation types in both Japanese and Western styles, including some unconventional forms such as [capsule hotels](e2025_capsule_hotels.html) and [temple lodgings](e2025_temple_lodgings.html). Rates range from around 2,000 [yen](e2196.html) per person in a cheap dormitory to over 100,000 yen per person in a first-class hotel or [ryokan](e2029.html).

Below is a list of accommodation types with typical overnight rates:

### Japanese style

* 

  [Ryokan](e2029.html)

  6,000 to 60,000 yen per person

  [Ryokan](e2029.html) are traditional Japanese-style inns with Japanese-style rooms. A stay at a ryokan typically includes dinner and breakfast and is recommended to all travelers to Japan as it gives you the opportunity to experience a traditional Japanese lifestyle.
* 

  [Minshuku](e2026.html)

  5,000 to 14,000 yen per person

  [Minshuku](e2026.html) are Japanese-style bed and breakfast lodgings. They are usually family-run, offer Japanese-style rooms, and often include one or two [meals](e2035.html) in the price.

### Western style

* 

  Western-style hotels

  8,000 to 200,000 yen per room

  Western-style hotels, including various international and Japanese hotel chains, can be found across Japan, especially in the [larger cities](/list/e1003.html). 5-star hotels often cost more than 100,000 yen per night.
* 

  [Business hotels](e2025_business_hotels.html)

  7,000 to 20,000 yen per room

  [Business hotels](e2025_business_hotels.html) offer small, simple Western-style rooms with snacks and drinks provided by [vending machines](e2010.html). Some business hotel chains, such as Route Inn, APA Hotel, Super Hotel and Toyoko Inn, operate dozens of hotels across Japan.
* 

  [Pensions](e2025_pension.html)

  8,000 to 15,000 yen per person

  [Pensions](e2025_pension.html) are comparable to [minshuku](e2026.html) (see above), except that they offer rooms in Western-style rather than in Japanese-style. They are typically found in mountainous resort towns and in the countryside.
* 

  [Hostels and dormitories](e2030.html)

  2,000 to 5,000 yen per person

  [Hostels](e2030.html) offer lodging and meals at the lowest budget level. Japan Youth Hostels, a member of the International Youth Hostel Federation, operates more than 100 hostels across Japan.

### Japanese and Western style

* 

  [Vacation rentals](e2025_vacation_rentals.html)

  From 5,000 per property

  [Airbnb](https://airbnb.pvxt.net/c/278510/567379/4273?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.airbnb.com%2Fa%2Fstays%2FJapan) and other [vacation rental services](e2025_vacation_rentals.html) are popular in Japan. On offer are apartments and rooms with traditional or modern interior, as well as restored historic houses.

### Unique lodgings

* 

  [Capsule hotels](e2025_capsule_hotels.html)

  3,000 to 5,000 yen per person

  Mainly targeting a male clientele in need of nothing but a bed, [capsule hotels](e2025_capsule_hotels.html) accommodate their guests in small capsules. A television, a shared bathroom and coin lockers are usually provided.
* 

  [Temple lodgings](e2025_temple_lodgings.html)

  6,000 to 20,000 yen per person

  It is possible for tourists to spend the night at some Buddhist [temple lodgings (shukubo)](e2025_temple_lodgings.html). A stay often includes two vegetarian meals and the opportunity to join the morning prayers. One of the best places to experience a night at a [temple](e2058.html) is [Mount Koya](e4900.html).
* 

  [Manga cafes](e2025_manga_kissa.html)

  1,500 to 3,000 yen per person

  [Manga cafes](e2025_manga_kissa.html) are establishments that provide their customers with seats or booths to read [manga](e2070.html) (Japanese comics) and surf the [internet](e2279.html). Many of them are open 24 hours and provide various amenities that make them an option for [low-budget](e2028.html) overnight stays.
* 

  [Love hotels](e2031.html)

  6,000 to 12,000 yen per room

  Not meant as tourist lodgings, [love hotels](e2031.html) are visited by couples who wish to enjoy some undisturbed time together. Rooms at love hotels can be rented for 2-3 hours during the day or for an overnight stay.
* 

  [Overnight buses](e2366.html)

  From around 3,000 yen one way

  [Overnight buses](e2366.html) combine cheap transportation with one night worth of accommodation. Services are available between many cities and are particularly economical along the most popular routes, such as Tokyo-Kyoto/Osaka. Seating ranges from regular bus seats to private compartments.

### Longer stays

* 

  [Apartments](e2200.html)

  From 50,000 yen per month

  Apartments and shared apartments, rented on a monthly basis, are among the most inexpensive ways of staying in Japan for an extended period. Several companies [specifically target foreigners](e2032.html) in Japan and offer rental contracts from as short as a single month.