---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2361_03.html
title: JR Kansai Area Pass
description: About the Kansai Area version of the JR West Rail Pass.
keywords: JR, West, Rail, Pass, Kansai, Area
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 843
char_count: 6150
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:44:39
---

The **JR Kansai Area Pass** is a [rail pass](e2357.html) for exclusive use by foreign visitors to Japan, providing unlimited travel on local [JR](e2019.html) trains and buses in the [Kansai Region](/list/e1105.html) around [Osaka](e2157.html), [Kyoto](e2158.html), [Nara](e2165.html) and [Kobe](e2159.html), as well as on the Haruka limited express train to/from [Kansai Airport](e2033.html).

|  |
| --- |
| [**Purchase the JR Kansai Area Pass**](https://affiliate.japan-experience.com/click?o=4&a=31&link_id=841) |

JR Kansai Area Pass

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| **1 day** | 2800 yen |
| **2 consecutive days** | 4800 yen |
| **3 consecutive days** | 5800 yen |
| **4 consecutive days** | 7000 yen |

* Reduced rates (50% off) apply to children aged 6-11

Below is a map of lines that can be used with the JR Kansai Area Pass (and the three 1-day passes that come with it):

### Validity

1. Unlimited use of local [JR trains](e2019.html) in the designated area in the [Kansai Region](/list/e1105.html), including [Osaka](e2157.html), [Kyoto](e2158.html), [Nara](e2165.html), [Kobe](e2159.html), [Kansai Airport](e2033.html) and [Himeji](e3500.html) (see map above).
2. Use of the Haruka limited express train between [Kansai Airport](e2033.html) and [Kyoto](e2158.html). Pass holders can make up to two seat reservations for the Haruka and use non-reserved seats as many times as they wish. Apart from the Haruka, no other [limited express](e2016.html#category) train (or [shinkansen](e2018.html)) is covered by the pass.
3. Unlimited use of local JR buses between [Kyoto Station](e3922.html), [Takao](e3940.html) and Shuzan.
4. One voucher for a Kyoto Subway One Day Card which allows for one calendar day of unlimited use of the [Karasuma and Tozai subway lines](e2363.html) during the validity of the Kansai Area Pass. The voucher needs to be exchanged at a subway station's ticket counter or at the Kyoto City Bus & Subway Information Center in front of [Kyoto Station](e3922.html).
5. One voucher for a Keihan 1-Day Kyoto Sightseeing Pass which allows for one calendar day of unlimited use of the Keihan Main Line between Demachiyanagi and Iwashimizu-Hachimangu stations, the Keihan Uji Line and the Iwashimizu Hachimangu Sando Cablecar during the validity of the Kansai Area Pass. The voucher needs to be exchanged at Keihan Sanjo, Tofukuji or Uji stations.
6. One voucher for a Hankyu 1-Day Kyoto Line Free Pass which allows for one calendar day of unlimited use of the Hankyu Kyoto Line between Osaka-Umeda, Kyoto-Kawaramachi and Arashiyama and of the Hankyu Senri Line between Tenjinbashisuji-Rokuchome and Kitasenri during the validity of the Kansai Area Pass. The voucher needs to be exchanged at a Hankyu tourist information counter at Osaka-Umeda, Kyoto-Kawaramachi or Kyoto-Karasuma stations.
7. Free use of rental bicycles at designated Ekirin Kun outlets within the covered area.
8. The validity of the pass is based on calendar days (midnight to midnight) as opposed to 24-hour periods.
9. The multiple-day passes are valid on consecutive days.
10. Only foreign visitors to Japan (with [temporary visitor](e2221.html) status) can use the JR Kansai Area Pass. It cannot be used by residents of Japan.

### Points of sale

The JR Kansai Area Pass can be purchased [online](https://affiliate.japan-experience.com/click?o=4&a=31&link_id=841) through various websites or at selected travel agents outside of Japan. The actual pass has to be picked up at a major station in the area covered before use.

|  |
| --- |
| [**Purchase the JR Kansai Area Pass**](https://affiliate.japan-experience.com/click?o=4&a=31&link_id=841) |

### Seat reservations

The pass can be used to make up to two seat reservations for the Haruka [limited express](e2016.html#category) train between [Kansai Airport](e2033.html), [Osaka](e2157.html) and [Kyoto](e2158.html). Reservations can be made at selected ticket machines and at ticket offices. The pass cannot be used on reserved seats on any other trains.

### Assessment

The JR Kansai Area Pass is generally too expensive to pay off for urban transportation around Osaka, Kyoto, Kobe and Nara alone. It usually pays off only if visiting more outlying destinations covered, such as [Himeji](e3500.html), [Hikone](e7000.html), [Iga Ueno](e4350.html) or [Koka](e7025.html).

### Alternative tickets

The more expensive [Kansai Railway Pass](e2357_005.html) has a similar coverage area as the JR Kansai Area Pass, but covers a denser network, including the subways of Kyoto, Osaka and Kobe. It does not cover JR trains, though. Unlike the JR Kansai Area Pass, it can be used on non-consecutive days. Read our page about [passes for the Kansai Region](e2357_kansai.html) for more information.