---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2452.html
title: Markets in Japan
description: A list of some of the best markets in Japan.
keywords: japan, japanese, markets, market, fish, morning, vegetable, wholesale
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 1318
char_count: 9108
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:46:52
---

Markets make great tourist destinations around the world, and Japanese markets are no exception. Popular markets include fish markets in coastal regions, quaint morning markets in rural towns and large, busy metropolitan wholesale markets.

Many markets are busy and crowded. Therefore, tourists are asked not to bring large [luggage](e2274.html) into markets, be considerate of people around them, and observe local rules, such as possible rules against eating while walking.

Below is a list of some of Japan's more popular markets:

* 

  [Kushiro](e6790.html)

  [Kushiro Washo Market](e6793.html)

  [Kushiro Washo Market](e6793.html) (Kushiro Washo Ichiba) opened in 1949 near Kushiro Station and is one of the "three big markets of [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html)". There are about 60 stalls selling fresh seafood, dried products, meat and vegetables. A popular meal at the market is "Kattedon", a [donburi](e2342.html) dish where diners can personalize their rice bowl with seafood bought from the vendors.
* 

  [Sapporo](e2163.html)

  [Sapporo Nijo Market](e5310.html)

  The [Nijo Market](e5310.html) (Nijo Ichiba) in [Sapporo](e2163.html), nicknamed "Sapporo residents' kitchen", is another one of the three big markets in [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html). The market has a history of over 100 years and occupies about one city block in central Sapporo. Nijo Market offers fresh seafood and local produce through multiple vendors, as well as a collection of restaurants and small drinking places along a narrow corridor called Noren Yokocho.
* 

  [Sapporo](e2163.html)

  [Sapporo Curb Market](e5317.html)

  The [Sapporo Curb Market](e5317.html) (Sapporo Jogai Ichiba) is a public market consisting of nearly 80 stores and restaurants lined up along several blocks just outside of Sapporo's Central Wholesale Market. The market specializes in [Hokkaido seafood](e5312.html) and local produce. The best way to enjoy the market is to have a seafood [donburi](e2342.html) (kaisendon) at one of the restaurants in the market.
* 

  [Hakodate](e5350.html)

  [Hakodate Morning Market](e5353.html)

  The [Hakodate Morning Market](e5353.html) (Hakodate Asaichi) started in 1945 near Hakodate Station and is third of the three big markets in [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html). This public market spans about four city blocks with fresh seafood and produce on sale daily, and many restaurants offering fresh seafood breakfasts, like seafood [donburi](e2342.html).
* 

  [Aomori](e3750.html)

  [Aomori Furukawa Fish Market](e3758.html)

  The [Furukawa Fish Market](e3758.html), also known as the Aomori Gyosai Center, is a public fish market a five minute walk from Aomori Station packed with vendors selling all sorts of local seafood, vegetables and pickles. The market is known for "Nokkedon", a [donburi](e2342.html) dish that visitors can create themselves with seafood bought from the different vendors.
* 

  [Aomori](e3750.html)

  [Aomori Auga Fish Market](e3754.html)

  The [Auga Fish Market](e3754.html) (Auga Shinsen Ichiba) is a fish market located in the basement of Auga Festival City shopping center, not far from [Furukawa Fish Market](#furukawa) and Aomori Station. Fresh seafood is brought in from Aomori Port and there are also shops selling dried foods, prepared foods and vegetables. Restaurants in the basement also serve seafood from the market.
* 

  [Miyako](e5044.html)

  [Miyako Fish Market](e5045.html)

  The [Miyako Fish Market](e5045.html) (Miyako-shi Gyosai Ichiba) is one of [Miyako City](e5044.html)'s public markets. There are about 40 vendors selling seafood freshly brought in from Miyako Port, and fruit and vegetables, as well as a couple of restaurants. In addition to larger stalls, the market also reserves one section to local farmer families to directly sell their produce to market visitors.
* 

  [Kesennuma](e5036.html)

  [Kesennuma Fish Market](e5036_fish.html)

  The fascinating action at the [Kesennuma Fish Market](e5036_fish.html) can be observed by tourists from a long observation deck. The market is divided into an area for small fish and other seafood and an area for large fish, including tuna and sharks. Shark fin is a specialty of Kesennuma, and the local fishing industry also processes all the sharks' other parts into various products. Adjacent to the market stands a shopping complex with restaurants and a shark museum.
* 

  [Shiogama](e5041.html)

  [Shiogama Fish Market](e5043.html)

  The [Shiogama Fish Market](e5043.html) (Shiogama Suisanbutsu Nakaoroshi Ichiba) is a wholesale seafood market open to the public. In addition to over 140 stalls selling fresh, dried and processed seafood, there are also restaurants and areas where visitors can grill their seafood purchases as well as create their own seafood [rice bowl](e2342.html) (kaisendon).
* 

  [Tokyo](e2164.html)

  [Tsukiji Outer Market](e3021.html)

  Tsukiji's wholesale market closed in autumn 2018; however, the adjacent [Tsukiji Outer Market](e3021.html) continues to cater to shoppers and diners with fresh seafood and produce along its narrow lanes.
* 

  [Tokyo](e2164.html)

  [Toyosu Market](e3013_market.html)

  [Toyosu Market](e3013_market.html) is the huge wholesale market that took over business from the above-listed Tsukiji Market in 2018. Visitors can observe the market action from observation decks and dine at restaurants.
* 

  [Takayama](e5900.html)

  [Takayama Morning Markets](e5907.html)

  Held daily in two places in the center of town, [Takayama](e5900.html)'s morning markets are considered one among Japan's three famous morning markets. Both morning markets have about 40-50 shops selling fruit and vegetables, [pickles](e2349.html), [miso](e2045.html) and other homemade goods. Either market can be reached in a ten minute walk from Takayama Station.
* 

  [Noto Peninsula](e4250.html)

  [Wajima Morning Market](e4255.html)

  The site of the market was destroyed in the Noto Peninsula Earthquake and a resulting big fire on January 1, 2024. The aim is to bring the market back to Wajima in the future. In the meantime, temporary markets and related events are held across Japan.

  The [Wajima Morning Market](e4255.html) (Wajima Asaichi) is [Wajima City](e4255.html)'s most famous attraction and also one of Japan's three famous morning markets. Vendors, including many elderly farmers, line the pedestrian street in the city center selling various goods, including fresh seafood, produce and local lacquerware.
* 

  [Kanazawa](e2167.html)

  [Omicho Market](e4207.html)

  [Omicho Market](e4207.html) (Omicho Ichiba), also known as "the kitchen of Kanazawa", has been [Kanazawa](e2167.html)'s largest fresh food market since the [Edo Period](e2128.html). There are about 200 shops and stalls specializing in local seafood from the Sea of Japan, produce, and general household goods. The restaurants inside the market tend to be quite busy during lunch time with tourists and locals alike, and it is not unusual to see long lines in front of the popular restaurants.
* 

  [Kyoto](e2158.html)

  [Nishiki Market](e3931.html)

  [Nishiki Market](e3931.html) (Nishiki Ichiba), also known as "Kyoto's Kitchen", is a narrow five block long shopping street with over 400 years of history lined by more than one hundred shops and restaurants in [Kyoto](e2158.html). Most shops specialize in a particular type of food and almost everything sold in the market is locally produced and procured, making Nishiki Market a great place to find Kyoto specialties such as Japanese sweets, [pickles](e2349.html) and dried seafood.
* 

  [Osaka](e2157.html)

  [Kuromon Market](e4031.html)

  Known as "Osaka's Kitchen", [Kuromon Market](e4031.html) (Kuromon Ichiba) is a several hundred meter long, covered shopping arcade filled with shops and restaurants selling seafood, meat, vegetables and fruits.
* 

  [Kochi](e5600.html)

  Kochi Sunday Market

  Hours: 6:00 to 15:00

  The Sunday Market (Nichiyo-ichi) in [Kochi](e5600.html) has a history of over 300 years and is held in the city center about ten minutes on foot from the JR Kochi Station. Locally grown produce and dried seafood, kitchen and household goods can be found at the sunday market and street vendors also sell all sorts of ready made delicacies, drawing locals and tourists every week.
* 

  [Shimonoseki](e6140.html)

  Karato Market

  Hours: 4:00 to 15:00 (from 8:00 on Sundays and [national holidays](e2062.html))

  Karato Market is located in a large warehouse at the eastern end of [Shimonoseki](e6140.html)'s waterfront area. It specializing in pufferfish amongst other types of fish. The auction space, the stalls of the intermediate wholesalers and the shops of small business fishmongers as well as green grocers can all be found on the hall's ground floor. Some restaurants are located on the second floor.
* 

  [Kitakyushu](e4875.html)

  [Tanga Market](e4884.html)

  [Tanga Market](e4884.html) is a covered local market street in central [Kitakyushu](e4875.html), known as the "Kitchen of Kitakyushu". A few dozens of shops selling seafood and prepared foods are packed into the relatively small block that makes up the market, including a handful of restaurants.
* 

  [Karatsu](e8375.html)

  Yobuko Morning Market

  Hours: 7:30 to 12:00 (except January 1)

  This public market is held daily along a 200 meter long street in the small port town of Yobuko outside central [Karatsu](e8375.html). With over a hundred years of history, it is considered one of the best morning markets in Japan. Vendors line the street, selling dried seafood, [vegetables](e2346.html) and other local foods. Squid is a local specialty and can found prepared in various ways.


[## The Basics about Overtourism in Japan

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2452.html+report+topstory+255+338+0+/news/overtourism.html)

[## Tokyo to Osaka, But Not the Usual Way

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2452.html+report+jrkintetsu+1+11+0+/ad/jr-kintetsu-pearl-route/)

[## Our 2025 Travel Highlights

From Our Staff

](/link.html?/e/e2452.html+report+topstory+300+391+0+/news/0061.html)

[## Four spots not to miss on the Boso Peninsula

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2452.html+report+chiba+5+15+0+/ad/boso-activities/)

[## Ultimate Guide to Limited Express Trains

Travel Guide

](/link.html?/e/e2452.html+report+topstory+299+390+0+/e/e2016_limited_express.html)

[## 2025 Autumn Color Reports

Travel Report

](/link.html?/e/e2452.html+report+topstory+298+389+0+/blog/koyo25/)

[## 14 years after the tsunami

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2452.html+report+topstory+297+388+0+/blog/recovery/251028.html)

Shopping

* [How to shop](/e/e2450_how.html)
* [Types of shops](/e/e2450_what.html)

+ [Department Stores](/e/e2072.html)
+ [100 Yen Shops](/e/e2077.html)
+ [Convenience Stores](/e/e2071.html)
+ [Public Markets](/e/e2452.html)
+ [Outlet Malls](/e/e2451.html)
+ [Supermarkets](/e/e2073.html)
+ [Vending Machines](/e/e2010.html)

* Local Shopping Guides

+ [Tokyo Shopping Guide](/e/e3053.html)
+ [Kyoto Shopping Guide](/e/e3958.html)
+ [Osaka Shopping Guide](/e/e4013.html)
+ [Matsuyama Shopping Guide](/e/e5508.html)

[## The Basics about Overtourism in Japan

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2452.html+report+topstory+255+338+0+/news/overtourism.html)

[## Tokyo to Osaka, But Not the Usual Way

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2452.html+report+jrkintetsu+1+11+0+/ad/jr-kintetsu-pearl-route/)

[## Our 2025 Travel Highlights

From Our Staff

](/link.html?/e/e2452.html+report+topstory+300+391+0+/news/0061.html)

[## Four spots not to miss on the Boso Peninsula

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e2452.html+report+chiba+5+15+0+/ad/boso-activities/)

[## Ultimate Guide to Limited Express Trains

Travel Guide

](/link.html?/e/e2452.html+report+topstory+299+390+0+/e/e2016_limited_express.html)

[## 2025 Autumn Color Reports

Travel Report

](/link.html?/e/e2452.html+report+topstory+298+389+0+/blog/koyo25/)

[## 14 years after the tsunami

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e2452.html+report+topstory+297+388+0+/blog/recovery/251028.html)