---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2167.html
title: Kanazawa Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for the city of Kanazawa, Japan.
keywords: kanazawa, guide, travel, city, tourism, sightseeing, tourist, visitor, information
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 1791
char_count: 13227
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 22:43:21
---

During the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868), Kanazawa (金沢) served as the seat of the **Maeda Clan**, the second most powerful feudal clan after the [Tokugawa](e2128.html) in terms of [rice](e2043.html) production and fief size. Accordingly, Kanazawa grew to become a town of great cultural achievements, rivaling [Kyoto](e2158.html) and Edo ([Tokyo](e2164.html)).

During [World War Two](e2129.html), Kanazawa was Japan's second largest city (after Kyoto) to escape destruction by air raids. Consequently, parts of the old [castle town](e2296.html), such as the [Nagamachi](e4204.html) samurai district and [chaya entertainment districts](e4206.html), have survived in pretty good condition.

Today, Kanazawa remains an important city in its region and serves as the capital of [Ishikawa Prefecture](/list/e1222.html). The city boasts many historical attractions such as restored residences and districts, as well as modern museums. But Kanazawa's unchallenged main attraction is [Kenrokuen](e4200.html), one of Japan's "three best landscape [gardens](e2099.html)" and by many considered the most beautiful of them all.

* [](/e/e4200.html)

  1

  Garden

  [Kenrokuen•••](/e/e4200.html)

  Japan's most celebrated landscape garden.

  4.4

  

  1,334
* [](/e/e4205.html)

  2

  Temple

  [Ninjadera•](/e/e4205.html)

  Temple equipped with secret doors and traps.

  4.0

  

  428
* [](/e/e4206.html)

  3

  Historic Site

  [Higashi Chaya District•](/e/e4206.html)

  District with teahouses where geisha perform.

  3.9

  

  776
* [](/e/e4209.html)

  4

  Museum

  [21st Century Museum•](/e/e4209.html)

  Spectacular contemporary art museum.

  3.8

  

  418
* [](/e/e4211.html)

  5

  Museum

  [D.T. Suzuki Museum•](/e/e4211.html)

  Intriguing museum about the philosopher.

  3.7

  

  47
* [](/e/e4201.html)

  6

  Historic Site

  [Seisonkaku Villa•](/e/e4201.html)

  Beautiful Japanese villa next to Kenrokuen.

  3.7

  

  192
* [](/e/e4204.html)

  7

  Historic Site

  [Nagamachi•](/e/e4204.html)

  Kanazawa's former samurai district.

  3.6

  

  503
* [](/e/e4207.html)

  8

  Shopping

  [Omicho Market•](/e/e4207.html)

  Busy market near Kanazawa Station.

  3.4

  

  666
* [](/e/e4202.html)

  9

  Castle

  [Kanazawa Castle•](/e/e4202.html)

  Slowly being reconstructed.

  3.4

  

  1,038
* [](/e/e4212.html)

  10

  Historic Site

  [Nishi Chaya District](/e/e4212.html)

  A small geisha district near the Ninja Temple.

  3.3

  

  220
* [](/e/e4203.html)

  11

  Shrine

  [Oyama Shrine](/e/e4203.html)

  Shrine dedicated to the former local lord.

  3.2

  

  359

Side Trips from Kanazawa

* [](/e/e5950.html)

  1

  [Shirakawago & Gokayama••](/e/e5950.html)

  Mountainous region, known for its farmhouses.

  4.5

  

  1,085
* [](/e/e4250.html)

  2

  [Noto Peninsula](/e/e4250.html)

  Rural peninsula with beautiful coastlines.

  3.8

  

  305
* [](/e/e4275.html)

  3

  [Kaga Onsen](/e/e4275.html)

  A collection of four historic hot spring towns.

  3.4

  

  219

[

Kanazawa Museum Guide](/e/e4210.html)

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Kanazawa](/e/e2167.html)

[Getting to and around Kanazawa](/e/e4208.html)
[See access info](/e/e4208.html)

Getting In:

[Komatsu Airport](/e/e4282.html)

[

1 Day

Classic Kanazawa

Kanazawa Full Day Walk

* Stroll through **Kenrokuen Garden**
* See **Kanazawa Castle**
* Visit **Omicho Market**

View itinerary](e4213_kanazawa_full.html)