---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2228.html
title: Smoking in Japan
description: Basics about cigarettes and smoking in Japan.
keywords: japan, smoke, tabacco, japan, cigarettes, manners
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 345
char_count: 2549
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:37:33
---

Tobacco was introduced to Japan by the Europeans in the 1500s. In recent years, the smoking rate among men has plummeted from over 50% in 2001 to around 25% in 2022, while less than 10% of women smoke. The law prohibits the purchase and smoking of cigarettes to persons under the age of twenty.

Cigarettes can be bought in tobacco stores, [convenience stores](e2071.html) and at [vending machines](e2010.html), although purchase from vending machines is only possible with a so-called TASPO card, a photo identification card which verifies the holder's age.

It is common courtesy to smoke only in designated smoking areas to contain second-hand smoke, and for smokers to carry small portable ashtrays to dispose their cigarette butts when cigarette bins cannot be found. Portable ashtrays can be purchased at [convenience stores](e2071.html).

In some city districts, outdoor smoking is limited to selected smoking areas

#### Indoor Smoking

In April 2020, a new smoking law, which prohibits indoor smoking, fully came into effect. The exceptions are private homes, hotel rooms, cigar bars and some small-sized restaurants and bars that were opened before April 2020. Many [hotels](e2025.html) offer non-smoking and smoking rooms, but the number of fully smoke-free lodgings is on the increase. Smoking is also prohibited on [trains](e2019.html), [buses](e2015.html) and [airplanes](e2365.html).

#### Outdoor Smoking

Many cities prohibit smoking on the streets in busy districts except in designated smoking areas. Smoking is also prohibited on the platforms of most major railway stations except in designated smoking rooms.

A no-smoking sign on the street