---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e2360.html
title: How to get to and around Yokohama\: Access, Transportation and Orientation
description: About public transportation in Yokohama and how to travel between Tokyo and Yokohama.
keywords: yokohama, access, orientation, transportation, directions, getting there, trains, subway, buses
content_type: city_guide
word_count: 2418
char_count: 16671
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:09:41
---

### How to get from Tokyo to Yokohama

* 

  Tokyu Toyoko Line

  About 25 minutes and 310 yen from Shibuya Station

  The Toyoko Line connects Tokyo's [Shibuya](e3007.html) Station with Yokohama. Make sure to board a [limited express](e2016.html) or [express](e2016.html) train, as they are much faster than [local](e2016.html) trains, but cost the same. From Yokohama Station, trains continue to run on the Minato Mirai Line to Motomachi-Chukagai, offering convenient access to most of central Yokohama's sights. North of [Shibuya](e3007.html), the trains continue to run along the Fukutoshin Subway Line. There are also branch lines to Meguro Station on the Yamanote Line and the Shin-Yokohama Line that connects to the shinkansen station of the same name.
* 

  JR Tokaido Line

  About 25 minutes and 490 yen from Tokyo Station  
  About 20 minutes and 310 yen from Shinagawa Station

  The Tokaido Line provides the fastest connection between [Tokyo Station](e3037.html) and [Yokohama](e2156.html) Station.
* 

  JR Yokosuka Line

  About 30 minutes and 490 yen from Tokyo Station  
  About 20 minutes and 310 yen from Shinagawa Station

  The Yokosuka Line is only slightly slower than the Tokaido Line. Northwest of Tokyo Station, the line is known as Sobu Line and provides direct connections to [Chiba](/list/e1212.html) and [Narita Airport](e2027.html).
* 

  JR Shonan Shinjuku Line

  About 30 minutes and 580 yen from Shinjuku Station  
  About 20 minutes and 410 yen from Shibuya Station

  The [Shonan Shinjuku Line](e2374.html) provides a direct connection between [Yokohama](e2156.html) and [Shinjuku](e3011.html), [Shibuya](e3007.html) and [Ikebukuro](e3038.html) in central Tokyo and [Saitama](/list/e1213.html), [Gunma](/list/e1209.html) and [Tochigi](/list/e1210.html) prefectures north of Tokyo.
* 

  JR Keihin-Tohoku Line

  About 40 minutes and 490 yen from Tokyo Station  
  About 30 minutes and 310 yen from Shinagawa Station

  The [Keihin-Tohoku Line](e2371.html) is a slower, local connection between Tokyo and Yokohama. South of Yokohama Station, the line is known as Negishi Line and provides access to several sights in central and southern Yokohama.
* 

  Keikyu Main Line

  About 20 minutes and 320 yen from Shinagawa Station

  The Keikyu Railway connects [Shinagawa](e3040.html) with Yokohama and [Haneda Airport](e2430.html). "Limited express" trains are the fastest.
* 

  JR Tokaido Shinkansen

  About 15 minutes from Tokyo Station to Shin-Yokohama

  All trains along the [Tokaido Shinkansen](e2018_tokaido.html) stop at Shin-Yokohama Station. Shin-Yokohama is about 10-15 train minutes from Yokohama Station and Yokohama's city center by the JR Yokohama Line or subway.
* 

  From the Airport

  The closest airports to Yokohama are [Narita Airport](e2027.html?aFROM=2027_2156) and [Haneda Airport](e2430.html?aFROM=2156_2430). Please visit the respective airport pages for access details.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](/e/e2196.html).

[Yokohama](e2156.html) is served by four [railway](e2019.html) companies (Japan Railways, Tokyu Railway, Keikyu Railway and Sagami Railway, better known as Sotetsu), two municipal subway lines and a [bus](e2015.html) network, which is operated partly by the city and partly by private bus companies.

The city has two major railway stations: **Yokohama Station** and **Shin-Yokohama Station**. Train lines of all four railway companies and the subway line pass through Yokohama Station, which is located in the city center. Shin-Yokohama Station, on the other hand, is located outside of the city center, about ten minutes from Yokohama Station by the JR Yokohama Line or the municipal subway. The [shinkansen](e2018.html) (bullet trains) stop at Shin-Yokohama Station.

Most parts of central Yokohama can be explored **on foot**. For example, it is very pleasant to walk from [Minato Mirai](e3200.html) along the waterfront to [Yamashita Park](e3204.html), visiting [Osanbashi Pier](e3208.html) along the way, and then proceed from Yamashita Park to the nearby [Yamate](e3203.html) district or [Chinatown](e3201.html).

For those who prefer not to walk long distances, there is the **Akaikutsu Loop Bus** which connects Sakuragicho Station with most sights of interest in central Yokohama, and the **Bayside Blue Bus** which runs between Yokohama Station, Minato Mirai and other sights in central Yokohama. Buses run every 30-40 minutes, and the fare is 220 yen per ride or 600 yen for a day pass valid on all Yohokama City Buses.

Akaikutsu Loop Bus

Furthermore, it is also possible to travel by boat. The **Sea Bass** travels between Yokohama Bay Quarter (about 500 meters from Yokohama Station's east exit) and [Yamashita Park](e3204.html) 1-2 times per hour (20-35 minutes, 1000 yen one way). Most of the boats stop at Yokohama Hammerhead along the way (15 minutes, 700 yen one way from Yokohama Bay Quarter), and about half of them also serve the Red Brick Warehouses (15-25 minutes, 800 yen one way).

The [Suica and Pasmo prepaid cards](e2359_003.html), as well as [eight IC cards](e2359_003.html) from other major cities of Japan, can be used on virtually all public transportation in Yokohama, including the Sea Bass.

Bayside Blue Bus