---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3009.html
title: Tokyo Tower
description: Visitor guide for Tokyo Tower.
keywords: tokyo, tower, japan
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2924
char_count: 20487
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:00:40
---

Standing 333 meters high in central [Tokyo](e2164.html), Tokyo Tower (東京タワー) is the world's tallest, self-supported steel tower and 3 meters taller than its model, the Eiffel Tower. A symbol of Japan's post-war rebirth as a major economic power, Tokyo Tower was the country's tallest structure from its completion in 1958 until 2012 when it was surpassed by the [Tokyo Skytree](e3064.html). In addition to being a popular tourist spot, Tokyo Tower serves as a broadcast antenna.

The tower's **main deck** at 150 meters is reached via elevator or a 600-step staircase (both paid). Thanks to the tower's central location, the observatory offers an interesting view of the city despite being only at a relatively moderate height. There are also some "lookdown windows" in the floor to stand on, a souvenir shop and a cafe.

View from the main deck

A second set of elevators connect the main deck to the 250 meter high **top deck**, from where you can get a bird's eye view of [Tokyo](e2164.html) from high above the surrounding buildings. It is the third highest [observation deck in Tokyo](e3057.html) (after the two decks at the [Tokyo Skytree](e3064.html)). When visibility is good, visitors can see the Tokyo Skytree and [Mount Fuji](e2172.html) in the distance.

In the building at the base of the tower, known as the Foot Town, visitors can find a selection of shops and restaurants, as well as the **Red Tokyo Tower** e-sports entertainment complex. Spanning multiple floors, this complex offers various interactive games and e-sport activities. Admission tickets allow visitors to play any game during the ticket's validity period.

One of the games available at Red Tokyo Tower

The closest subway stations to Tokyo Tower are Onarimon Station on the Mita Subway Line, Akabanebashi Station on the Oedo Subway Line and Kamiyacho on the Hibiya Subway Line, which are all about a 5-10 minute walk from the tower. Alternatively, you can reach the tower in about a 15-20 minute walk from Hamamatsucho Station on the [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html) or Daimon Station on the Asakusa or Oedo subway lines.

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)