---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3556.html
title: Sake Breweries in the Nada District
description: Visitor guide for the sake breweries of Kobe's Nada district, the world's top sake producing region.
keywords: nada, sake, district, kobe, breweries, museum
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2741
char_count: 18552
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:53:21
---

Sake was commonly stored in wooden casks in the past

[Kobe](e2159.html)'s Nada (灘) district is Japan's top [sake](e2037_sake.html) producing region. It has long been famous for its sake due to the availability of high quality [rice](e2043.html), suitable water, favorable weather conditions and its proximity to Kobe Port and [Osaka](e2157.html).

Many [sake](e2037_sake.html) breweries operate in the Nada district, which stretches approximately three kilometers east to west. Some open stores and/or exhibition rooms to the public and allow guests to taste their sake. Some of them also maintain a museum about sake brewing.

The district makes for a good half-day walk exploring its nice mix of older buildings and modern breweries. If time is limited, we recommend visiting the Hakutsuru Sake Brewery Museum: its well-presented exhibits have comprehensive English coverage, and sake tasting is available.

* 

  Sawanotsuru Sake Museum

  Hours: 10:00 to 16:00  
  Closed: Wednesdays, [Obon](e2062.html) and [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission: Free

  Sawanotsuru Sake Museum was opened in 1978 with the aim of commemorating the sake-brewing heritage of the Nada district. It was destroyed by the [Great Hanshin Earthquake](e2116.html) in 1995 and subsequently rebuilt in 1999. Visitors can learn about traditional brewing methods and the ingredients involved. English pamphlets are available.
* 

  Kobe Konan Muko no Sato

  Museum: 10:00 to 15:00 (until 17:00 on Saturdays)  
  Shop: 9:30 to 18:30  
  Closed: Fridays, December 29 to January 5 (shop: January 1-2)  
  Admission: Free

  Rather than [sake](e2037_sake.html) itself, foodstuff, condiments and [pickles](e2349.html) that are made with sake lees (sake leftovers after filtering) are the focus here. Kobe Konan Muko no Sato has a small museum which showcases different varieties of pickles and their making process. It also has a couple of [restaurants](e2036.html) and a big shop which sells a huge range of food which make good sake accompaniments.
* 

  Kobe Shushinkan Brewery

  Hours: 10:00 to 18:30  
  Closed: [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission: Free

  Shushinkan has a large shop selling [sake](e2037_sake.html) and sake-related products, as well as a restaurant serving Japanese cuisine in combination with sake. Free guided tours of the sake warehouse are available except in December and include sake tasting. Advance reservations are required to tour the warehouse and can be made [online](#section_links).
* 

  Hakutsuru Sake Brewery Museum

  Hours: 9:30 to 16:30 (entry until 16:00)  
  Closed: [Obon](e2062.html) and [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission: Free

  Good exhibits with life-sized replicas and models are presented at the Hakutsuru Sake Brewery Museum, a traditional building on the large grounds of a modern sake factory. The museum maintains a nice ambience and offers English pamphlets and videos explaining the sake brewing process. Sake tasting is available at its shop.
* 

  Kikumasamune Sake Museum

  Hours: 9:30 to 16:30 (admissions until 16:00)  
  Closed: [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission: Free

  Kikumasamune Sake Museum is housed in a nice wooden-plaster building. Wooden tools, containers and machinery are exhibited in a room accompanied by atmospheric lighting and traditional music. Across the road is the Kikumasamune Taru Sake Meister Factory, where visitors can learn about the wooden barrels used for storing sake and see the process of making them. Advance reservations are required to enter the Meister Factory and can be made [online](#section_links).
* 

  Sakuramasamune Sake

  Hours: 10:00 to 19:00  
  Closed: Tuesdays  
  Admission: Free

  Sakuramasamune has a small exhibition space which showcases some tools and simple machines used in the past for [sake](e2037_sake.html) production. There is also a video presentation showing clips of its traditional brewing process. Sake tasting is available at a shop selling its sake brews. There is limited English information at this location.
* 

  Hamafukutsuru Ginjo Brewery

  Hours: 10:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: Mondays (or following day if Monday is a [national holiday](e2062.html))  
  [Obon](e2062.html) and [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission: Free

  Hamafukutsuru has won several awards for its high-grade "ginjo" sake. The exhibition space on the second level of the building explains their sake brewing process through diagrams and written information (English available). Visitors are also able to peer through windows to look at brewing machines as they are being used.

Hanshin Railways, Hankyu Railways, and the JR Tokaido Line run parallel north of the Nada district, offering connections to both [Kobe](e2159.html) and [Osaka](e2157.html). The stations on the Hanshin Line are the closest to the district and its attractions.

You may choose to start exploration of the district from any of the stations along it. The Hakutsuru Sake Brewery Museum can be reached in five minutes on foot from Sumiyoshi Station on the Hanshin Railway Line (10 minutes, 200 yen from Sannomiya Station). [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) holders may want to alight at JR Sumiyoshi Station (8 minutes from JR Sannomiya Station), from where it is a 15-20 minute walk to Hakutsuru.

[How to get to and around Kobe](e3554.html)