---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3004.html
title: Asakusa
description: Visitor guide for Asakusa, a district of Tokyo and the center of Tokyo's shitamachi (low town or old town).
keywords: tokyo, asakusa, shitamachi, low, town, old
content_type: attraction
word_count: 4031
char_count: 28760
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:58:35
---

Asakusa (浅草) is the center of [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s shitamachi (literally "low city"), one of Tokyo's districts, where an atmosphere of the Tokyo of past decades survives.

Asakusa's main attraction is [Sensoji](#sensoji), a very popular Buddhist [temple](e2058.html), built in the 7th century. The temple is approached via the [Nakamise](#nakamise), a shopping street that has been providing temple visitors with a variety of traditional, local snacks and tourist souvenirs for centuries.

Asakusa can easily be explored on foot. Alternatively, you can consider a guided tour on a rickshaw (jinrikisha, literally "man powered vehicle"). A 30 minute tour for two persons costs around 9000 [yen](e2196.html). Shorter and longer courses are also available.

Sensoji on a busy day

For many centuries, Asakusa used to be [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s leading entertainment district. During the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1867), when the district was still located outside the city limits, Asakusa was the site of [kabuki](e2090.html) theaters and a large red light district. In the late 1800s and early 1900s, modern types of entertainment, including movie theaters, set foot in Asakusa.

However, large parts of Asakusa were destroyed in the air raids of 1945. And while the area around the rebuilt [Sensoji](#sensoji) has since regained its former popularity, the same cannot be said for Asakusa's [entertainment district](#rokku). The opening of the 634 meter tall [Tokyo Skytree](e3064.html), a twenty minute walk across the Sumida River from Asakusa, has led to an increase of tourists again.

### Temples and shrines

* 

  Kaminarimon (Kaminari Gate)

  Hours: Always open  
  Admission: Free

  Kaminarimon is the first of two large entrance gates leading to [Sensoji Temple](#sensoji). First built more than 1000 years ago, it is the symbol of Asakusa. The [Nakamise](#nakamise) shopping street leads from Kaminarimon to the temple grounds.
* 

  [Sensoji Temple](e3001.html)

  Hours: 6:00 to 17:00 (from 6:30 October to March)  
  Admission: Free

  Sensoji ("Senso" is an alternative reading for Asakusa and "ji" means temple) is [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s most famous and popular [temple](e2058.html). Built in the 7th century, it is also one of its oldest, although the current buildings are postwar reconstructions.
* 

  Asakusa Shrine

  Hours: Always open  
  Admission: Free

  Asakusa Shrine, also known as Sanja-sama, was built during the [Edo Period](e2128.html) and survived the air raids of 1945. The [shrine](e2059.html)'s [festival](e2063.html), the [Sanja Matsuri](e3063.html), is one of Tokyo's most spectacular and popular. It is held every year on a weekend (Friday to Sunday) in mid May.
* 

  Dempoin Temple

  Not usually open to the public

  Dempoin is a [temple](e2058.html) just next to [Sensoji](#sensoji), known for its beautiful [garden](e2099.html). Unfortunately, the temple and garden are not open to the public except during occasional special openings. Visiting the garden by appointment is not possible either anymore.

### Shopping

* 

  [Nakamise Shopping Street](e3001.html)

  Hours depend on the individual shops; typically daily from 9:00 to 18:00

  The Nakamise shopping street stretches over approximately 250 meters from [Kaminarimon](#kaminari) to the main grounds of [Sensoji Temple](#sensoji). It is lined by more than 50 shops, which offer local specialties and the usual array of tourist souvenirs.
* 

  Shin-Nakamise Shopping Street

  Hours depend on the individual shops; typically daily from 10:00 to 19:00.

  Shin-Nakamise or "New Nakamise" runs perpendicular to the [Nakamise Shopping Street](#nakamise). It is a covered shopping arcade lined by various shops and restaurants.
* 

  [Kappabashi Shopping Street](e3020.html)

  Hours: Most shops open from 9:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: Many shops are closed on Sundays and [national holidays](e2062.html)

  [Kappabashi](e3020.html) is an almost one kilometer long street lined by shops catering to restaurant businesses. Items on sale include tableware, kitchen utensils and appliances, sample food, furniture, signs, lanterns and uniforms. The street is located about 600 meters west of Sensoji.
* 

  Rox Department Store

  Shops: 10:30 to 21:00 (supermarket is open 24 hours)

  Rox is a shopping and entertainment complex consisting of a main building (Rox) and three annex buildings (Rox2G, Rox3G and Rox Dome). Many shops sell fashion for ladies and kids. There is a 24h [supermarket](e2073.html) in the basement.
* 

  Tobu Asakusa Station & Matsuya Department Store

  Matsuya department store is open daily from 10:00 to 19:00

  Tobu Asakusa Station is the terminal station of Tobu trains heading into the suburbs and prefectures north of [Tokyo](e2164.html), including trains to [Nikko](e3800.html). The station building also houses a Matsuya department store that spans eight floors.
* 

  Asakusa Underground Street

  Hours depend on the individual shops

  The Asakusa Underground Street (Asakusa Chikagai) is one of the oldest underground shopping streets in Japan. The short passageway connects Tobu Asakusa Station to the [Shin Nakamise Shopping Street](#shinnakamise) and contains about 20 shops and restaurants. The arcade looks like it has remained unchanged in decades, and visitors may feel like they walked into a throwback alleyway.

### Other attractions

* 

  Asakusa Culture Tourist Information Center

  Hours: 9:00 to 20:00 (observation deck until 22:00)  
  Closed: No closing days

  The Asakusa Culture Tourist Information Center was newly opened in 2012, adding diversity to the streets of Asakusa with its interesting architectural design. The eight story building offers a tourist information desk in multiple languages, free [Wi-Fi connectivity](e2279.html), a cafe, and an observation deck which provides good views looking onto [Sensoji Temple](#sensoji) and the [Nakamise Shopping Street](#nakamise).
* 

  [Sumida River Cruise](e3042.html)

  [Tokyo Water Bus](e3042.html) operates sightseeing ships from Asakusa Pier to [Odaiba](e3008.html) and Hinode Pier. There are also some short river cruises that start and end in Asakusa.
* 

  Sumida Park

  Hours: Always open  
  Admission: Free

  This riverside park stretches along both sides of Sumida River for several hundred meters. In spring it becomes a popular [cherry blossom](e2011.html) viewing spot, while on the last Saturday of July it becomes the site of the [Sumida River Fireworks](e2267.html).
* 

  Rokku Entertainment District

  Opening hours depend on the individual businesses

  Rokku used to be [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s leading entertainment district before the war, hosting Japan's first cinema and more. However, the district has not regained its former popularity after the war. Today, Rokku offers attractions such as rakugo theaters, cinemas and [pachinko](e2065.html) parlors.
* 

  Hanayashiki Amusement Park

  Hours: Varies by day; typically 10:00 to 18:00  
  Closed on some Tuesdays  
  Admission: 1200 yen plus separate fees for rides

  Originally opened as a flower park, Hanayashiki has a history of more than 150 years. Located just a few steps from [Sensoji](#sensoji), the miniature [amusement park](e2067.html) offers numerous attractions, including a small Ferris wheel, roller coaster, carousel and Space Shot.
* 

  Asahi Beer Tower

  Restaurants open 11:30 to 15:00 and 17:30 to 22:00

  The Asahi Beer Tower and Asahi Super Dry Hall with its characteristic Flamme d'Or were completed in 1989 and host the headquarters of Asahi Breweries. Furthermore, several restaurants can be found in the complex. Behind both the Beer Tower and the Super Dry Hall is the Asahi Craftmanship Brewery. The restaurant and brewery offers diners decently priced lunches as well as Asahi craft beer on tap.
* 

  Taikokan (Drum Museum)

  Hours: 11:00 to 16:00 (entry until 15:00)  
  Closed: Mondays (except [national holidays](e2062.html)) and Tuesdays  
  Admission: 500 yen

  Drums from around the world, including Japanese taiko drums, are exhibited in this small museum. Visitors can play several of the drums. The museum is located in a floor above the Miyamoto Unosuke Nishi Asakusa store, which sells Japanese drums and [festival](e2063.html) goods.

### Dining

* 

  Kamiya Bar

  Hours: 11:00 to 20:00 (last order at 19:30)  
  Closed: first and last Mondays of the month, Tuesdays

  Kamiya Bar is one of Japan's oldest bars, with a history reaching back to 1880. It was founded by Kamiya Denbe, one of the first wine producers in Japan, who also invented denki bran, a type of brandy concoction, which is still served at the Kamiya Bar. The bar has three stories, and the one on street level is the most popular. There is also a window store that sells souvenir bottles of denki bran.
* 

  Umezono

  Hours: 10:00 to 17:00 (until 18:00 on weekends)  
  Closed on Some Wednesdays

  Umezono is a [traditional Japanese sweets](e2312.html) shop that started in 1854. Their menu contains classics like anmitsu and oshiruko in addition to seasonal favorites like shaved ice (kakigori). The shop also has a window store that sells yokan, dorayaki and other desserts to go.
* 

  Suzukien Nanaya Gelato

  Hours: 11:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: Irregular closures

  Asakusa Suzukien Nanaya Gelato is a collaboration between Suzukien, a green tea speciality shop, and Nanaya Gelato, a gelato shop. The store claims to have the richest and most intense green tea ([matcha](e2041.html)) gelato in the world. The popular shop offers over a dozen gelato flavors including multiple matcha ones.
* 

  Asakusa Kagetsudo

  Hours: 9:00 until sold out

  Asakusa Kagetsudo is a melon-pan store and restaurant that has been in business since 1945. Melon-pan is a sweet baked bread with a top that resembles the outer layer of a cantaloupe melon. Kagetsudo is most famous for their jumbo melon-pan which is best eaten warm, but also sells variations of their melon-pan that come with ice cream fillings. Japanese desserts, as well as savoury foods like [soba noodles](e2341.html) are also sold at the restaurant.
* 

  Tempura

  Hours depend on shops; typically 11:30 to 20:00

  There are a number of [tempura](/r/e106.html) shops in Asakusa, offering delicious deep fried seafood and vegetables. The area flourished in the [Edo Period](e2128.html) as a tempura location thanks to the availability of seafood products from nearby Tokyo Bay. The more well-known tempura restaurants include Daikokuya, San Sada and Owariya.
* 

  Unagi

  Hours depend on shops; typically 11:30 to 13:30 and 17:30 to 19:30

  There are also a handful of established [unagi-ya](e2344.html) (freshwater eel restaurants) in the area with histories of at least a hundred years. [Unagi](e2344.html), or freshwater eel, is relatively expensive with prices starting at 2000 yen for lunch and more for dinner. Well known unagi-ya in Asakusa include Irokawa, Hatsuogawa and Maekawa.

Asakusa is served by the Ginza Subway Line, Asakusa Subway Line, Tsukuba Express and Tobu Railway. It can also be accessed by the [Tokyo Water Bus](e3042.html).

### From Tokyo Station

Take the [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html) to Kanda Station (2 minutes, 150 yen) and transfer to the Ginza Subway Line for Asakusa (10 minutes, 180 yen).

### From Shinjuku Station

Take the orange [JR Chuo Line](e2372.html) to Kanda Station (10 minutes, 180 yen) and transfer to the Ginza Subway Line for Asakusa (10 minutes, 180 yen).

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)