---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3802.html
title: Iemitsu Mausoleum (Taiyuin)
description: Visitor guide for Taiyuin, the mausoleum of Tokugawa Iemitsu in Nikko.
keywords: nikko, taiyuin, taiyuinbyo, mausoleum, tokugawa, iemitsu
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1907
char_count: 12925
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:02:24
---

Nitenmon Gate

Taiyuin (大猷院, Taiyūin) is the mausoleum of the third [Tokugawa shogun](e2128.html), Iemitsu, the grandson of Ieyasu. Iemitsu's lavish mausoleum complex resembles nearby [Toshogu Shrine](e3801.html) in its layout and architecture, but it was intentionally built somewhat more modest than the Toshogu due to Iemitsu's deep respect for his grandfather. Taiyuin is the posthumous name of Iemitsu.

Like the Toshogu, the Taiyuin features a mix of Buddhist and Shinto structures. It was common for places of worship to contain elements of both religions until the [Meiji Period](e2130.html) when Shinto was deliberately separated from Buddhism. Across the country, Buddhist elements were removed from shrines and vice versa, but at Taiyuin the separation was not carried out completely. While Toshogu was officially made a shrine, the Taiyuin became a subtemple of nearby [Rinnoji Temple](e3803.html).

Honden (back) and Haiden

A short walk west of Toshogu Shrine takes visitors to the vermillion Niomon Gate, the entrance to the Taiyuin. Proceeding on leads to the more lavishly decorated Nitenmon Gate which is guarded by two heavenly kings, followed by two beautiful structures - a drum tower on the left and a belfry on the right.

Arriving at the Karamon Gate which stands majestically in front of the praying hall (haiden), look out for the famous sculpture of a white dragon that embellishes the transom of the gate. Visitors are allowed to enter the haiden and see its lovely interior decor featuring precious ornaments, an elegant coffered ceiling, nice carvings and gold lacquered pillars and walls.

The main hall (honden) is located just behind the haiden but can only be viewed from the outside. The two halls are connected by a short corridor and the structures combined have a slightly subtle yet grand-looking facade. Next to the halls at the innermost precincts is Tokugawa Iemitsu's mausoleum, which lends a composed and dignified charm to the [temple](e2058.html).

Tokugawa Iemitsu's mausoleum

Taiyuin stands about 200 meters west of [Toshogu](e3801.html), a 30-40 minute walk or 10 minute bus ride (350 yen one way, 600 yen day pass, covered by the [Nikko Passes](e2358_002.html)) from Tobu and JR Nikko stations.

[How to get to and around Nikko](e3805.html)