---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3477.html
title: Temple Walk
description: Visitor guide for the Onomichi Temple Walk, a path the leads through the residential areas of Onomichi to 25 historical tempels.
keywords: onomichi, temple, walk, observation, deck, platform, senkoji, park
content_type: attraction
word_count: 667
char_count: 4422
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:03:08
---

There are many more [temples](e2058.html) in [Onomichi](e3475.html) than a town of its small size would be expected to have. This density of temples has become one of Onomichi's main tourist attractions, and there is a designated walking route called the Temple Walk that connects 25 of them.

The Temple Walk route is about two and a half kilometers long, and can take anywhere from an hour to half a day depending on how much time is spent at each temple. A whole day can be spent if visitors also stop at the other attractions along the way.

The temples of Onomichi are quite pleasant, even if none are breathtaking. Most of them are quite small, although there are a few that have multiple buildings, and a couple that have [pagodas](e2058.html). The Temple Walk is marked quite well, but it should be noted that many of the temples can be reached only by diverting off the route a little bit.

A temple along the Temple Walk

In addition to exposing visitors to the town's [temples](e2058.html), the Temple Walk also leads through the narrow lanes of Onomichi's residential areas, passing by small shops, houses and schools. It also takes visitors up and down some of Onomichi's slopes, which afford attractive views onto the town below and the neighboring island.

Along the route, tourists will pass some sights related to [Onomichi](e3475.html)'s artistic achievements, including the former residences of two prominent authors, and a "literature path" that is marked by rocks inscribed with poems. The Motion Picture Museum can also be reached as a diversion from the Temple Walk.

The view of Onomichi from the Senkoji Observation Platform

One of [Onomichi](e3475.html)'s temples has given its name to a prominent public park, Senkoji Park, that is situated at the peak of a large hill. The park can be reached by foot, but there is also a ropeway available for visitors who would prefer not to walk up the slope. In addition to Senkoji Temple, the Onomichi City Art Museum can also be found within the park. The museum was designed by acclaimed Japanese architect Ando Tadao, and features temporary exhibitions, which vary widely in theme and period.

As one of the highest points in Onomichi, Senkoji Park affords some great views over the town. The best place to get a view is from the Senkoji Observation Platform, which is free to enter. The park is especially attractive during the [cherry blossom season](e2011.html), which usually takes place in late March and early April, as it is considered one of Japan's 100 best cherry blossom spots.

The Temple Walk begins just north of the first bridge that crosses over the train tracks east of Onomichi Station, about 200 meters away.

A [taxi](e2021.html) ride from Onomichi Station to the far end of the Temple Walk takes a couple minutes and costs around 1000 yen. Taxis are readily available in front of Onomichi Station, but may be difficult to catch from the opposite end of the Temple Walk.

[How to get to and around Onomichi](e3476.html)