---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3204.html
title: Yamashita Park
description: Visitor guide for Yamashita Park, a park on the waterfront of Yokohama with an observatory tower and retired cruise ship.
keywords: yamashita, park, yokohama, hikawa, maru, marine, tower
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2143
char_count: 14302
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:09:58
---

Yamashita Park's Waterfront Walkway

Yamashita Park (山下公園, Yamashita Kōen) is a public park that stretches about 750 meters along [Yokohama](e2156.html)'s waterfront. The park is about a hundred meters wide, and consists mostly of open green space. It was constructed after the Great Kanto Earthquake of 1923.

Strolling through Yamashita Park, it is hard to miss the massive ocean liner in the water beside the promenade. The ship is called the **Hikawa Maru** and was first put into service in 1930 along the Yokohama-Vancouver/Seattle line. It had first-class cabins that attracted the likes of the [Imperial Family](e2135.html) and Charlie Chaplin for the transpacific journey. In 1960, the ship was retired, and it now serves as a museum with informative displays and interiors from the 1930s.

Near the Hikawa Maru, and also hard to miss, stands the **Yokohama Marine Tower**. It is located just beside the park and extends 106 meters into the air. Although not as high as the [Landmark Tower Sky Garden](e3200.html#tower), the Marine Tower's observatory also has a 360 degree view, located 100 meters above ground.

Hikawa Maru and Marine Tower

One of the park's main features is a wide path that runs along the water. It is usually quite busy, with many people enjoying the view of the bay and the ships passing by. At the park's southern end, the path leads into the Rinkosen promenade, which passes by the [Osanbashi Pier](e3208.html) and leads to [Minato Mirai](e3200.html). The walk is a pleasant way to travel between the areas.

A few fountains and an eclectic group of monuments are distributed throughout the park: an Indian memorial, a monument to a Filipino general, a girl scout statue, two monuments to particular Japanese children songs, and a statue of a large head commemorating the introduction of the Western-style haircut to Japan.

Yamashita Park and the Hikawa Maru seen from the Marine Tower Observatory

Yamashita Park is a five minute walk from Motomachi-Chukagai Station (8 minutes, 230 yen from Yokohama Station) on the Minato Mirai Line. The park can also be reached by foot from [Chinatown](e3201.html) in five minutes or from [Minato Mirai](e3200.html) in about 30 minutes.

The [Akaikutsu Loop Bus and Bayside Blue Bus](e2360.html) connect Yamashita Park with other tourist sights in central Yokohama. The fare is 220 yen per ride or 600 yen for a day pass.

Yamashita Park can also be accessed by "Sea Bass" boats, which depart from Yokohama Bay Quarter (500 meters from Yokohama Station's east exit. The journey costs 1000 yen one way and takes between 20 and 35 minutes, depending on whether stops are made at the Yokohama Hammerhead and the Red Brick Warehouses along the way.

[How to get to and around Yokohama](e2360.html)