---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3316.html
title: Korankei Travel Guide
description: Visitor guide for Korankei, a valley in Aichi Prefecture reputed to be one of the best spots for autumn colors in the Tokai Region.
keywords: korankei, valley, autumn, colors, leaves, taigetsukyo
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2163
char_count: 14084
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:56:42
---

Taigetsukyo Bridge

Korankei (香嵐渓, Kōrankei) is a valley near [Nagoya](/e/e2155.html) reputed to be one of the best spots for [autumn colors](e2014.html) in the [Chubu Region](/list/e1104.html).

Shaping the valley is the 254 meter tall Mount Iimori, on which Kojakuji Temple stands. In the 17th century, the head priest of Kojakuji planted some [maple trees](e2014_trees.html) along the temple approach, prompting many locals to do the same in the area. Today, visitors to Korankei can see the fruits of these past efforts in the form of excellent autumn scenery. The peak of the season usually takes place around mid to late November each year.

The best colors tend to appear around the paths along Tomoe River at the western and southern sides of Mount Iimori. Visitors can enjoy lovely sights of maple tree tunnels and autumn colors in combination with views of the river and the few bridges across it. The vermillion **Taigetsukyo Bridge** is the symbol of Korankei and a great picture-taking spot.

Along Tomoe River

During each autumn leaf season, which typically lasts through November, [festival](e2063.html) stalls are set up close to Tomoehashi Bridge, where nightly illuminations are held from sunset till 21:00. Events such as musical performances are held at the Korankei Hiroba open space.

One attraction at Korankei that is independent of the [autumn colors](e2014.html) is the **Sanshu Asuke Yashiki Village**, which preserves many old houses in a village-like atmosphere. Visitors can participate in one of the many [workshops](e2424.html) held in the various houses, and try to make some handicrafts such as straw sandals and indigo dyed handkerchiefs.

Sanshu Asuke Yashiki Village

Getting to Korankei is time consuming and not straightforward due to the lack of direct public transportation. From Nagoya Station, at least one transfer involving [trains](e2016.html) and [buses](e2015.html) is required to reach Korankei. The one way journey costs about 1500-2000 yen and takes just under two hours with good connections. There are multiple ways to approach Korankei as explained by the network map below.

Note that Korankei gets very popular during the [autumn leaf](e2014.html) season, especially on weekends. Visitors are advised to come early in the day when the congestion is not as bad yet. Later in the day there can be long traffic jams in front of full parking lots, which affect buses too.

[How to get to and around Nagoya](e3302.html)