---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3476.html
title: Tokyo to Onomichi\: How to get to and around Onomichi
description: How to get to and around Onomichi.
keywords: onomichi, access, orientation, transportation, get there, shinkansen, train
content_type: attraction
word_count: 700
char_count: 5119
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:03:12
---

From/To:

TokyoOsakaKyotoHiroshimaOkayama

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

[Tokyo](e2164.html) and [Onomichi](e3475.html) (Shin-Onomichi Station) are connected by the [JR Tokaido/Sanyo Shinkansen](e2018_sanyo.html). Because Shin-Onomichi Station is only served by [Kodama](e2018_sanyo.html) trains, a transfer from/to a [Hikari](e2018_sanyo.html) or [Nozomi](e2018_sanyo.html) train is required at either Okayama Station or Fukuyama Station. Travel by Hikari may require an additional transfer to a [Sakura](e2018_sanyo.html) train at Shin-Osaka Station.

The entire trip costs around 18,000 yen one way and takes about four hours by Nozomi or about five hours by Hikari. The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) fully covers Hikari, Sakura and Kodama trains, but a supplement fee is required on Nozomi trains.

The journey between [Tokyo](e2164.html) ([Shinjuku](e3011.html)) and [Onomichi](e3475.html) by the "Etoile Seto" [overnight bus](e2366.html) takes roughly 11 hours and costs 11,700 yen one way or 21,100 yen round trip. Buses are operated by Chugoku Bus and Odakyu Bus and run between Tokyo and Mihara, stopping at Onomichi along the way. Online reservations can be made through [Willer](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/hiroshima/onomichi/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184) and [Japan Bus Online](https://japanbusonline.com/en/AreaSearch2/3130000/6342050/?afcd=MDI=).

[Book Now](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/hiroshima/onomichi/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184)

JAL and ANA operate multiple [flights](e2365.html) per day between [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s [Haneda Airport](e2430.html) and [Hiroshima](e2160.html) Airport. Flight duration is about 90 minutes. The regular one way fare is around 45,000 yen, however, [discount tickets](e2364.html) are usually available for between 18,000 and 21,000 yen.

From Hiroshima Airport, take an airport bus in direction of [Fukuyama](e3430.html) and transfer to the "Flower Liner" bus at the Takasaka bus stop to reach Onomichi Station. The one way trip takes 60-90 minutes depending on the transfer and costs 1300 yen. Alternatively, the infrequent "Onomichi Hiroshima Airport" bus (2-3 buses per day) provides direct transportation between the airport and Onomichi. The one way trip costs 2000 yen and takes about an hour. Bicycles are allowed on the bus but they must be packed in their own bag.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

[Onomichi](e3475.html) is a small town whose center can be comfortably explored by foot. The town was built on a series of hills, so that walking between sites often involves going up or down slopes.

Onomichi has two main train stations: **Onomichi Station**, which is served by local JR trains, and **Shin-Onomichi Station**, which is served by the [Sanyo Shinkansen](e2018_sanyo.html). Onomichi Station is located at the western end of the downtown area, and Shin-Onomichi Station is located about three kilometers north of Onomichi Station. Traveling between the stations can be done by [bus](e2015.html) (15 minutes, 190 yen, every 15-30 minutes) or by [taxi](e2021.html) (10 minutes, 1400-1800 yen).

Two **cycling terminals** of the [Shimanami Kaido](e3478.html) are located about 150 meters from Onomichi Station: a regular one in a parking lot just west of the Green Hill Hotel on the waterfront and the Giant Onomichi shop beside the parking lot in the Onomichi U2 complex.

There are two short **ferry services** that provide frequent connections between central Onomichi and the neighboring Mukaishima Island. The one way ride costs 60-100 yen per person plus 10 yen for a bicycle.

There are also longer [ferry](e2355.html) lines to other islands along the [Shimanami Kaido](e3478.html), including one to Setoda Port (40 minutes, 1500 yen one way, 6 boats/day), which provides access to the [Hirayama Museum](e3479.html) and [Kosanji Temple](e3480.html). See the [Shimanami Kaido](e3478.html) page for more details about other ferry lines.