---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3553.html
title: Kobe Harborland
description: Visitor guide for Kobe Harborland, a shopping and entertainment district built along the waterfront of Kobe.
keywords: kobe, harborland, waterfront, dining, shopping, mall, anpanman, museum
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2346
char_count: 15576
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:52:53
---

Kobe Harborland (神戸ハーバーランド) is a shopping and entertainment district between JR Kobe Station and the waterfront of [Kobe](e2159.html)'s port area. The district offers a large selection of [shops](e2450.html), [restaurants](e2036.html), cafes and other amusements, which, together with the romantic evening atmosphere, have made it a popular spot for couples and tourists alike.

The most prominent shopping complex in Kobe Harborland is Umie which consists of three parts: Mosaic, South Mall and North Mall.

**Mosaic** stretches along the waterfront and offers a wide selection of restaurants. Many of the eateries overlook the harbor with views of [Kobe Port Tower](e3552.html) and the [Kobe Maritime Museum](e3552.html) across the water, which are especially nice in the evening when they are illuminated. At the southern end of Mosaic stand a Ferris wheel and the Anpanman Museum, a museum dedicated to the popular [manga and anime series](e2070.html) about the bread-headed superhero.

The **South Mall** and **North Mall** are enclosed shopping malls featuring a [department store](e2072.html) and more various smaller shops.

Umie's South Mall

More shopping and dining opportunities are found in many of the district's other buildings, which are connected with each other by a series of underground and surface walking paths, promenades and a waterfront boardwalk. One of the main streets that leads through the center of Kobe Harborland, the **Gaslight Street**, is lit up in the evenings by old-fashioned gas street lamps and electric lights.

Other attractions in the district include the **Renga Soko**, a small collection of 19th-century brick warehouses which remain from a former dockyard along the waterfront. The low brick buildings have been renovated and are now occupied by a restaurant, shops and an event space. In addition, a Manyo Club [hot spring](e2292.html) is located on the top floors of the Puromena skyscaper. The 24-hour facility offers nice views over the city from some of its baths.

Gaslight Street

Kobe Harborland starts just outside of JR Kobe Station and the Harborland Subway Station. Alternatively, it can be reached from [Meriken Park](e3552.html) in a five minute walk.

[How to get to and around Kobe](e3554.html)