---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3006.html
title: Harajuku
description: Visitor guide for Harajuku, a popular shopping and entertainment district in Tokyo.
keywords: harajuku, tokyo, takeshitadori, takeshita, street, omotesando, teenager
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3631
char_count: 25799
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:59:58
---

Takeshita Street

Harajuku (原宿) refers to the area around [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s Harajuku Station, which is between [Shinjuku](e3011.html) and [Shibuya](e3007.html) on the [Yamanote Line](e2370.html). It is the center of Japan's most extreme teenage cultures and fashion styles, but also offers shopping for adults and some historical sites of interest.

The focal point of Harajuku's teenage culture is [Takeshita Dori](#takeshita) (Takeshita Street) and its side streets, which are lined by many trendy shops, fashion boutiques, used clothes stores, crepe stands and fast food outlets geared towards the fashion and trend-conscious teens.

Omotesando

Just south of Takeshita Dori and over twice its length is [Omotesando](#omotesando), a broad, tree-lined avenue sometimes referred to as [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s Champs-Elysees. Here you can find famous brand name shops, cafes and [restaurants](e2036.html) for a more adult clientele. The stylish [Omotesando Hills](#hills) complex was opened in 2006 and targets fashion-conscious urbanites in their 30s and 40s, while [Kiddy Land](#kiddy) has hundreds of unique toys for kids of all ages.

Harajuku is not only about teenage culture and shopping. [Meiji Jingu](e3002.html), one of Tokyo's major [shrines](e2059.html), is located just west of the railway tracks in a large green oasis shared with the spacious [Yoyogi Park](e3034_002.html). Beautiful [ukiyo-e](e2291.html) paintings are exhibited in the small [Ota Memorial Museum of Art](#ota), and the [Nezu Museum](#nezumuseum) has an impressive collection of various Asian art as well as a traditional [Japanese garden](e2099.html).

### Famous streets

* 

  Takeshita Dori

  Shops along Takeshita Dori tend to be open daily from 11:00 to 20:00.

  The symbol of Harajuku and birthplace of many of Japan's fashion trends, Takeshita Dori (Takeshita Street) is a narrow, roughly 400 meter long street lined by shops, boutiques, cafes and fast food outlets targeting [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s teenagers. Because of the street's popularity, it becomes extremely crowded on weekends. More shops and restaurants are found along some of the side streets.
* 

  Omotesando

  Shops along Omotesando tend to be open daily from 11:00 to 20:00.

  Referred to as [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s Champs-Elysees, Omotesando is a one kilometer long, tree lined avenue, serving as the main approach to [Meiji Shrine](e3002.html). Numerous stores, boutiques, cafes and [restaurants](e2036.html), including several leading fashion brand shops, stand along the avenue. This area generally caters to an older and wealthier clientele than Takeshita Dori.

### Shopping

* 

  With Harajuku

  Hours: depend on shops, typically at least 11:00 to 20:00

  Standing just across the road of Harajuku Station, this shopping complex contains a relatively small number of high-profile shops, including an IKEA and a Uniqlo. There are terraces with lots of greenery in the back of the complex.
* 

  Omotesando Hills

  Shops: 11:00 to 21:00 (Sundays until 20:00)  
  Restaurants: 11:00 to 23:00 (Sundays until 22:00).

  Opened in 2006, Omotesando Hills consists of six floors (three are underground) of about 100 upmarket shops, cafes and restaurants. The building was designed by the renowned [architect](e2111_architects.html) Ando Tadao and has intriguing design elements. The shopping complex is [Omotesando](#omotesando)'s most prominent establishment, stretching along about one quarter of the avenue. Apartments are located above.
* 

  LaForet Harajuku

  Hours: 11:00 to 20:00

  LaForet Harajuku is a trend-setting shopping complex, consisting of seven floors of fashion boutiques and shops, mainly geared towards a young, female audience. The LaForet Museum on the top floor hosts various events and exhibitions.
* 

  Daiso Harajuku - 100 Yen Shop

  Hours: 9:30 to 21:00

  This shop along along [Takeshita Dori](#takeshita) used to be one of the largest [100 Yen Shops](e2077.html) in central [Tokyo](e2164.html), offering a wide array of goods, including clothing, kitchenware, food and stationery at 100 yen (plus [tax](e2206.html)) per item. However, the shop has considerably decreased in size over the years and is now considered a smaller branch.
* 

  Kiddy Land

  Hours: 11:00 to 20:00

  One of Tokyo's most famous and popular toy stores, Kiddy Land has a fantastic selection of toys and other products to amuse kids, including a Snoopy Town and Hello Kitty Shop on a total of five floors.
* 

  Louis Vuitton

  Hours: 11:00 to 20:00

  The Louis Vuitton Omotesando store was opened in 2002 as the company's largest store at the time. It is one of many famous brand names that have opened a store along Omotesando. The public store makes up five of the building's ten floors, which are designed as a stack of trunks rather than conventional floors.

### Other attractions

* 

  [Meiji Shrine](e3002.html)

  Hours: Sunrise to sunset  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free

  [Meiji Shrine](e3002.html) (Meiji Jingu) is a [Shinto shrine](e2059.html) dedicated to the deified spirits of Emperor Meiji and his consort, Empress Shoken. Emperor Meiji was a popular [emperor](e2135.html) who reigned from 1867 to 1912. The majority of the shrine grounds are composed of a beautiful, dense forest that can be explored on walking paths.
* 

  Togo Shrine

  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free

  Togo Shrine is a [Shinto shrine](e2059.html) dedicated to Admiral Togo, who defeated the Russian fleet in the Russo-Japanese War in [1905](e2130.html). The Togo Antique Market was held around the shrine on the first Sunday of each month, but it was discontinued in December of 2009.
* 

  Nezu Museum

  Hours: 10:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Mon (or next day if Mon is a [holiday](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html), between exhibitions  
  Admission: 1400 yen (or 1600 yen for special exhibition)

  The Nezu Museum has a collection of East Asian artwork that includes various objects from Japan, China and Korea. The museum building and exhibition rooms have a simple and elegant design and there is a large traditional [Japanese garden](e2099.html) outside to be explored.
* 

  Ota Memorial Museum of Art

  Hours: 10:30 to 17:30 (entry until 17:00)  
  Closed: Mon (or next day if Mon is a [holiday](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html), between exhibitions  
  Admission: Typically between 800 and 1200 yen depending on exhibition

  The small and elegant Ota Memorial Museum of Art exhibits selected [ukiyo-e](e2291.html) paintings and prints from the vast collection of the late Mr. Ota Seizo, which comprises of more than 10,000 pieces of art. Exhibits are changed every month.
* 

  [Yoyogi Park](e3034_002.html)

  Facilities are typically open from 9:00 to 17:00.

  [Yoyogi Koen](e3034_002.html) (Yoyogi Park) is one of [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s largest and most pleasant city [parks](e3034.html), featuring wide lawns, ponds and forested areas. It is a great place for jogging, picnicking and other outdoor activities.
* 

  National Yoyogi Stadium

  Built for the 1964 [Tokyo Olympics](e2260.html) by renowned [architect](e2111_architects.html) Tange Kenzo, the stadium hosted the Olympic swimming competitions. It is now also being used for ice skating and volleyball competitions, concerts and various other events.

**Harajuku Station** is a station on the [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html), two stations south of [Shinjuku](e3011.html) and one station north of [Shibuya](e3007.html) (150 yen from either station).

Only a short walk from Harajuku Station is the subway station **Meijijingu-mae Station**, which is served by the Chiyoda and Fukutoshin subway lines. At the eastern end of Omotesando is **Omotesando Station**, which is served by the Chiyoda, Ginza and Hanzomon subway lines.

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)