---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3080.html
title: Kichijoji
description: Visitor guide for Kichijoji, a popular district in Tokyo.
keywords: kichijoji, tokyo, travel, tourism, visitor, guide, sightseeing
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3310
char_count: 23375
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:59:40
---

Shops and restaurants on the south side of Kichijoji Station

Kichijoji (吉祥寺, Kichijōji) is a trendy neighborhood located just outside of central [Tokyo](e2164.html). Consistently voted as one of the top neighborhoods that Tokyoites want to live in, Kichijoji offers a good balance of commercial business and nature, namely [Inokashira Park](#park), within a relatively small space.

Kichijoji's main [shopping](e2450.html) district lies north of the station and consists of [three main arcades](#arcades): Sunroad, Harmonica Yokocho and Daiyagai. Smaller shopping streets branch out from them, and they round up the plentiful shopping and dining options alongside some [larger shops and department stores](#department).

### Tourist spots

* 

  Inokashira Park

  Hours: Always open

  Inokashira Park is a large park with a pond not far from the station. The pond used to be one of Tokyo's limited sources of potable water in the old days. Today, visitors enjoy the park on strolls or by rental row boats. Typically around late March and early April, the park becomes one ot Tokyo's most popular [cherry blossom spots](e3050.html).
* 

  Inokashira Park Zoo

  Hours: 9:30 to 17:00 (entry until 16:00)  
  Closed: Mondays (or Tue if Mon is a [national holiday](e2062.html)), Dec 29 to Jan 1  
  Admission: 400 yen

  Inokashira Park Zoo is a small [zoo](e2464.html) located inside Inokashira Park. It is made up of two sections: the main zoo area features a small petting zoo and various other small animals like marmots and squirrels, while the annex concentrates on the birds and fish that can be seen in and around the park's pond. Large animals like lions cannot be seen.
* 

  [Ghibli Museum](e3041.html)

  See [Ghibli Museum](e3041.html) page for hours and fees

  The [Ghibli Museum](e3041.html) is the [animation](e2070.html) and art museum of Miyazaki Hayao's Studio Ghibli. The museum is located at the western edge of Inokashira Park and can be reached in about 20 minutes on foot from Kichijoji Station.

* 

  Harmonica Yokocho

  Hours vary depending on shop, typically at least 17:00 to 24:00

  Harmonica Yokocho (lit. harmonica lane) is named for its network of narrow lanes resembling the cross section of a harmonica. It is located immediately north of Kichijoji Station and crammed with dining establishments, bars and shops.
* 

  Daiyagai

  Hours vary depending on shop, typically 10:00 to 21:00

  Daiyagai is a covered shopping street parallel to the station just beyond Harmonica Yokocho. The shops here offer a variety of goods from cooked food to daily necessities and fashion. One of the more popular shops is Satou Steak House, a butcher with a shop on the first floor and a wagyu steak restaurant on the second.

### Larger shops and department stores

* 

  Kirarina Kichijoji

  Hours: typically 10:00 to 21:00

  Kirarina is a 10-story mall located on top of Kichijoji Station. It is managed by the Keio group which also operates the Keio Inokashira Line. Kirarina's tenants are mostly fashion labels and a 2-story hobby craft store on the top floors.
* 

  Marui Kichijoji

  Hours: 10:30 to 20:00 (some cafes and restaurants until 21:00)

  Marui [department store](e2072.html) is a leading fashion retailer with branches in almost all of Tokyo's major districts. The Kichijoji outlet is on the south side of the station and carries lifestyle goods in addition to women's and men's fashion.
* 

  Coppice Kichijoji

  Hours: 10:00 to 21:00

  Coppice is a shopping mall made up of two buildings, a couple of blocks north of Kichijoji Station. Lifestyle shops make up the majority of the tenants, but a two-story bookstore and an art museum are located on the top floors. The city-operated art museum has three small galleries: two permanent ones and one for temporary exhibitions showcasing works of local artists.
* 

  Kichijoji Parco

  Hours: 10:00 to 20:00

  Parco is a shopping complex with an emphasis on fashion. The Kichijoji branch is north of the station and carries a variety of fashion brands as well as skincare labels.
* 

  Tokyu Kichijoji Department Store

  Shops: 10:00 to 19:00  
  Restaurants: 11:00 to 22:00

  The Tokyu [department store](e2072.html) in Kichijoji is a few blocks north of the station. The 11-story building carries women's and men's fashion brands, as well as skincare and cosmetics. A supermarket can be found in the basement, and there is a restaurant floor as well.
* 

  Uniqlo Kichijoji

  Hours: 10:00 to 20:00

  The seven-story Uniqlo store across from the [Parco](#parco) on the north side of Kichijoji Station is one of the brand's flagship stores in Tokyo.

Kichijoji Station in the center of the district is served by the [JR Chuo Line](e2372.html) and the Keio Inokashira Line which provide connections to [Shinjuku](e3011.html) and [Shibuya](e3007.html) respectively.

### From Tokyo and Shinjuku stations

Frequently departing, orange trains on the [JR Chuo Line](e2372.html) (rapid service) connect Kichijoji with [Shinjuku](e3011.html) (15 minutes, 230 yen one way) and [Tokyo Station](e2164.html) (30 minutes, 410 yen one way).

### From Shibuya Station

Frequent trains on the Keio Inokashira Line take about 20 minutes and cost 230 yen for the one way trip between [Shibuya Station](e3007.html) and Kichijoji.

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)