---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3842.html
title: Nasu Onsen
description: Travel guide for Nasu Onsen, a hot spring resort in Tochigi Prefecture.
keywords: nasu, onsen, nasudake, kogen, nasushiobara, nasu-shiobara
content_type: attraction
word_count: 954
char_count: 6386
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:49:31
---

Mount Nasudake

Nasu Onsen (那須温泉) is a pleasantly old-fashioned, spread-out [hot spring](e2292.html) resort on the slopes of Mount Nasudake, a highland area also referred to as the Nasu Highlands (那須高原, Nasu Kōgen). The center of the resort is the hot spring town of Yumoto, halfway up the mountain. Nasu's hot spring baths were discovered during the [Nara Period](e2132.html) (710-784) and have been highly regarded for their restorative properties ever since.

Mount Nasudake is also a popular [hiking](e2427.html) destination. A ropeway leads to within a 45 minute hike of the summit. A variety of other hiking trails cover the mountain slopes, and a [pedestrian suspension bridge](#tsutsujitsuribashi) offers nice views out over the trees. [Azalea bushes](#azalea) flower around Nasu Onsen in late May, while the [autumn colors](e2014.html) peak in early to mid October.

### Public baths

The following is an incomplete list of [hot spring](e2292.html) baths that are open to the public. Some [ryokan](e2029.html) in the area also open up their baths to non-staying visitors during daytime for a small fee.

* 

  Shika no Yu••

  Hours: 8:00 to 18:00 (entry until 17:30)  
  Closed: irregular closing days  
  Admission: 500 yen

  Shika no Yu is a beautiful, traditional bath house with gender-segregated, wooden indoor baths. The milky, sulfurous hot spring water comes in at a scalding 57 degrees Celsius. It is cooled down by a network of channels as it is directed into several small wooden tubs that range in temperature from 41-48 degrees Celsius.
* 

  Omaru Onsen Ryokan••

  Daytime hours: 11:30 to 14:30 (some irregular closing days)  
  Daytime admission: 1000 yen  
  Overnight stay: From around 22,000 yen per person including two meals

  Just one kilometer below the lower ropeway station, the Omaru Onsen Ryokan features multiple large outdoor pools along a naturally hot mountain river. The main pools are gender mixed, and all bathers are asked to wrap themselves in towels while in the gender mixed area. Despite its remote location, the ryokan offers high quality overnight facilities and meals, as well as great hospitality.
* 

  Yuyu Tengoku•

  Hours: 10:00 to 21:00 (entry until 20:00)  
  Closed: irregular closing days  
  Admission: 1000 yen (weekdays), 1500 yen (weekends and holidays)

  Yuyu Tengoku is a modern hot spring facility that is part of the Sun Valley Resort Hotel. Each of its gender segregated areas features several indoor and outdoor baths with a variety of different hot spring waters to try. They include magnesium, sulfur and alkaline hot spring waters, each of which has different health effects. Next door is the Aqua Venus pool and water park (separate admission applies).

### Other attractions

* 

  Nasu Ropeway

  Hours: 8:30 to 16:30 (varies seasonally)  
  Closed: early December to mid March  
  Admission: 1200 yen (one way), 1800 yen (round trip)

  The Nasu Ropeway leads from a parking lot near the final bus stop about 800 meters up the side of Mount Nasudake. From the upper station it is a further 30-45 minute hike to the peak. The ropeway offers beautiful views out over the Nasu-Shiobara area and is best from early to mid October when the [autumn colors](e2014.html) usually peak.
* 

  Murder Stone

  The murder stone is a large rock - split into two in 2022 - that vents poisonous gases. It is located in a small, volcanically active valley with walking trails and a shrine. The stone is related to a legend of a nine-tailed fox that devastated China and India before coming to Japan. The fox transformed into a beautiful lady to try and seduce the emperor, but was discovered and killed before it could enact its plan. Thereupon the fox's body turned into the murder stone.
* 

  Heisei no Mori (Heisei Forest)

  Hours: 9:00 to 16:30 (until 17:00 in May, July and August)  
  Closed: Wednesdays (or next day if Wednesday is a [national holiday](/e/e2062.html))  
  Admission: Free

  Heisei no Mori is a forest park that was originally part of nearby Nasu Imperial Villa. The villa is still used as a retreat by the [imperial family](e2135.html), but the park was opened to the public in 2011 as a place where people can experience nature. Well maintained trails lead through the forest to huts and observation points. An observation deck at the northwest end of the park offers views out to a waterfall.
* 

  Tsutsuji Suspension Bridge

  The Tsutsuji Suspension Bridge (Tsutsuji Tsuribashi) crosses a 130 meter long span 38 meters above the valley floor. It offers good views of Mount Nasudake in the distance, which are particularly beautiful during the [autumn color](e2014.html) season in early to mid October.
* 

  Azalea Fields

  The Hachiman Tsutsuji Gunraku is a large field of azaleas (tsutsuji) in Nasu Onsen. More than three kilometers of boardwalk lead through the field and can be explored on a variety of walking courses. The flowering bushes bloom in late May and are known for their pleasant scent, while providing spectacular autumn colors in October.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

Hourly [buses](e2015.html) operate from Nasu-Shiobara Station via Kuroiso Station to Nasu Onsen. From April to November, buses go all the way to the Nasu Ropeway Station (75 minutes, 1640 yen), while from December to March they only travel as far as Nasu Yumoto (50 minutes, 1170 yen).

[How to get to and around Nasu-Shiobara](e3841.html)