---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3036.html
title: Mitakesan (Mount Mitake)
description: Visitor guide for Mount Mitake (Mitakesan) in Tokyo.
keywords: mount, mitake, mitakesan, okutama, tokyo
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3058
char_count: 21490
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:59:21
---

Mount Mitake (御岳山, Mitakesan) is one of the many highlights of the Chichibu-Tama-Kai National Park, which covers more than 1250 square kilometers of forested mountains, hills, gorges and some rural towns in the [prefectures](/list/e1002.html) of [Yamanashi](/list/e1217.html), [Saitama](/list/e1213.html), [Nagano](/list/e1216.html) and [Tokyo](e2164.html).

Besides a popular [shrine](e2059.html), Mount Mitake offers [hiking](e2427.html) opportunities in virtually unspoiled [nature](e2122.html). Located in the Okutama region, the westernmost part of [Tokyo](e2164.html), the mountain can be reached in less than two hours from central Tokyo, making it a popular escape from the city.

Musashi Mitake Shrine

From the upper station of the Mitake Cablecar it is a 20-30 minute walk to the Musashi-Mitake Shrine on the mountain's summit (929 meters). On your way, you will pass a small village with many [Japanese style inns](e2029.html) and souvenir shops, which have been catering to visitors and pilgrims to Mount Mitake for centuries. It is believed that Musashi-Mitake Shrine has been serving as a center of mountain worship for almost 2000 years.

From the shrine, you have **hiking options** to neighboring peaks and valleys. Among the most beautiful destinations is the so called "Rock Garden", which, in fact, is a narrow, forested valley with a picturesque stream, lots of moss-covered stones and two nearby waterfalls. It takes less than an hour to reach the valley from the shrine.

Ayahiro Falls

If you want to walk some more, it is another 40-60 minutes from the Rock Garden to the peak of Mount Otake (1267 meters), from where you can enjoy nice views of the surrounding forest-covered mountains on clear days. Some passages are quite steep but do not require any advanced mountaineering tools. Sturdy shoes, however, are recommended.

Detailed hiking maps of the extensive trail network of the Okutama region are available at the Mitake Visitor Center located halfway between the upper cablecar station and the shrine.

The Rock Garden in autumn

Because Mount Mitake has been and still is a popular destination for pilgrims, there are many **lodgings** in the village, [minshuku](e2026.html) in particular, that serve pilgrims as well as regular tourists. Meals are simple and traditional, consisting mainly of locally sourced vegetables, although most also offer fish and meat today.

Rooms are usually traditional-style [tatami rooms](e2007.html), and bathing facilities are shared. Some lodgings also offer excursions to experience takigyo, a centuries old ascetic practice of standing or sitting in meditation beneath a waterfall.

A minshuku that offers traditional pilgrim-style lodging

From central [Tokyo](e2164.html) (e.g. [Shinjuku](e3011.html) or [Tokyo Station](e3037.html)) take the frequently departing, orange [JR Chuo Line](e2372.html) to Ome Station (75 minutes from Shinjuku). A few trains go all the way to Ome. Otherwise, a transfer of trains is required at Tachikawa (40 minutes from Shinjuku).

At Ome Station, change to another orange train on the JR Ome Line (usually waiting on the opposite platform of the arriving train) and ride as far as Mitake Station (20 minutes). The whole trip from Shinjuku to JR Mitake Station costs 950 yen one way and is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and [Tokyo Wide Pass](e2361_06.html).

Once at Mitake Station, take the [bus](e2015.html) to the lower station of the Mitake cablecar (10 minutes, 340 yen one way, about 2 buses/hour) or walk there in about 40 minutes. The cablecar lifts you to close to the summit of Mount Mitake (1130 yen roundtrip, 2-3 departures/hour).

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)