---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3317.html
title: Legoland Japan
description: Visitor guide for Legoland Japan in Nagoya.
keywords: legoland, nagoya, japan, amusement, theme, park, lego
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2177
char_count: 14123
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:56:11
---

Legoland Japan opened in 2017 in [Nagoya](e2155.html). The outdoor [amusement park](e2067.html) has many attractions aimed at young children and some attractions of interest to accompanying adults. Visitors can expect large Lego models, rides, building stations and dining areas.

The amusement park is separated into several themed areas, matching the different universes in the Lego world. Right in the middle of the park is "Miniland Japan" which highlights iconic attractions across Japan and is constructed out of millions of Lego bricks. Here you can find [Kyoto](e2158.html), [Tokyo](e2164.html) and [Mount Fuji](e2172.html) just a few steps away from one another. The rotating Observation Tower not far from Miniland offers a bird's eye view of the park and its surroundings.

Junior driving school for children

Factory and Bricktopia are two themed areas that are located right by the entrance of the park. Factory offers a factory tour where visitors can learn more about how Lego bricks are manufactured, including the types of machinery used. Bricktopia has rides as well as a hands-on area where visitors can attend workshops to learn more about model and robotics creation, and a model building and testing room. There is a Duplo playground for toddlers as well. An official Lego shop, The Big Shop, sells Lego sets and products from across the Lego universe.

The remaining four areas, Adventure, Lego City, Knight's Kingdom and Pirate Shores offer a range of attractions and scheduled shows. Note that shows are in Japanese only. Younger children would enjoy Lego City, a theme zone which is made specifically for children. There is at least one themed shop and restaurant in each area, as well as a free-to-build section for visitors who want to build models. Character mascots can also be found in their themed areas and are typically obliging with pictures.

The Sea Life Nagoya [aquarium](e2425.html), a Legoland Hotel and a pleasant collection of shops and restaurants are found just outside the entrance to Legoland.

Lego City

From Nagoya Station, take the Aonami Line to its terminal station, Kinjofuto Station. The one way ride takes about 25 minutes, costs 360 yen and is not covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html). Trains depart approximately every 15 minutes. Legoland is a five minute walk from Kinjofuto Station. It is also located close to the [SCMAGLEV and Railway Park](e3314.html).

[How to get to and around Nagoya](e3302.html)