---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3454.html
title: Hiroshima to Miyajima\: How to get to and around Miyajima
description: Access, orientation and transportation in Miyajima; how to get to and around the island.
keywords: miyajima, orientation, transportation, access, directions, get, to, around, train, ferry
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2069
char_count: 14299
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:03:25
---

[Miyajima](e3401.html) can be reached from [Hiroshima](e2160.html) in less than an hour by train and ferry or by direct boats. See also [how to get to Hiroshima](e3404.html). Visitors to Miyajima have to pay a 100 yen visitor tax, which is collected by the ferry operator. In case of [regular tickets](e2359_001.html) and [IC cards](e2359_003.html), the tax is included in the ticket cost, while [rail pass](e2357.html) holders will have to purchase a separate 100 yen ticket for the visitor tax at the ferry terminal.

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

To reach the ferry port from Hiroshima Station, take the JR Sanyo Line to Miyajimaguchi Station (25 minutes, 420 yen one way, covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html)). Alternatively, you can take tram line number 2 from central Hiroshima bound for Miyajimaguchi. The tram is slower, but costs only 240 yen one way (not covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html)).

From Miyajimaguchi Station, it is a short walk to the ferry pier, from where ferries depart frequently for Miyajima. There are two competing ferry companies operating from this port: JR and Matsudai. Both companies' ferry rides take 10 minutes and both cost 200 yen one way (excluding visitor tax). The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) is valid on JR ferries.

Boats connect Miyajima directly with [Hiroshima Peace Park](e3400.html) (45 minutes, 2200 yen one way, 4000 yen round trip excluding visitor tax, 2-4 boats/hour) and with Hiroshima Port (30 minutes, 2100 yen one way excluding visitor tax, hourly). The Japan Rail Pass is not valid on these boats.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

Miyajima is quite a large island, but its attractions are concentrated in two main areas: the small town around [Itsukushima Shrine](e3450.html) and [Mount Misen](e3451.html).

Visitors will first arrive at the ferry terminal, from where it is a ten minute walk to [Itsukushima Shrine](e3450.html). All the other sights are also located within walking distance from the shrine.

[Mount Misen](e3451.html) can be accessed by the Miyajima Ropeway, whose lower station is a ten minute walk from Itsukushima Shrine. There are also three hiking trails from the town to the summit.