---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3808.html
title: Tamozawa Imperial Villa
description: Visitor guide for the Tamozawa Imperial Villa in Nikko
keywords: Tamozawa, imperial, villa, nikko, emperor, royal, family, japan
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1832
char_count: 12535
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:02:14
---

Tamozawa Imperial Villa (田母沢御用邸, Tamozawa Goyōtei) blends traditional [Edo](e2128.html) and early modern [Meiji](e2130.html) Period [architecture](e2111.html) throughout its 106 rooms. The villa was erected in [Nikko](e3800.html) in 1899, using parts of a residence that originally stood in [Tokyo](e2164.html).

Before being moved to [Nikko](e3800.html), the building served as the Tokyo residence of a branch of the [Tokugawa family](e2128.html) and was later temporarily used as the Imperial Palace. In Nikko, it was enlarged into a summer residence for the [Imperial Family](e2135.html), but suffered neglect after World War II. In the year 2000, the villa was opened to the public after extensive renovations.

In addition to the building's long line of illustrious occupants, Tamozawa Imperial Villa is one of the largest remaining wooden buildings in Japan. The interior of the villa is a curious mix of Japanese and Western styles. Many floors are carpeted, and elaborate chandeliers hang from the ceilings. Yet the villa's Japanese elements, such as sliding paper doors and [tatami](e2007.html) flooring are prominent as well.

Although still impressive in size and grandeur, Tamozawa Imperial Villa currently occupies only one third of its original area. It now functions as a museum and memorial park, and is well equipped with multilingual displays for visitors. The manicured Japanese style [garden](e2099.html), that surrounds the villa, has several maple trees which offer [autumn colors](e2014.html) usually around late October and early November.

Mix of Japanese and Western styles

From JR or Tobu Nikko station, take a Tobu [bus](e2015.html) bound for [Chuzenji Onsen](e3806.html) or [Yumoto Onsen](e3807.html) and get off at the Tamozawa bus stop. The bus ride takes 10 minutes and costs 350 yen one way. The villa can also be reached in about a 20 minute walk from [Toshogu Shrine](e3801.html).

[How to get to and around Nikko](e3805.html)