---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3982.html
title: Nintendo Museum
description: Visitor guide for the Nintendo Museum, a museum devoted to the popular entertainment company, located south of central Kyoto in Uji City.
keywords: nintendo, museum, uji, kyoto
content_type: attraction
word_count: 417
char_count: 2948
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:06:58
---

The Nintendo Museum opened in October 2024 on the site of a former factory of the [Kyoto](e2158.html)-based entertainment company. It is located in [Uji City](e3975.html), a short [train ride south of Kyoto](#section_get_there).

The museum introduces the company's history. It displays the various products offered over the decades since the company's beginnings as a toy maker producing playing cards in 1889. Interactive sections let visitors play various games with an initial amount of "coins" included with the admission ticket and the ability to purchase additional coins.

There is also a hands-on area for creating and playing with the Hanafuda playing cards, Nintendo's original product (separate same-day reservations and fees are required). The museum's shop and cafe are accessible only to ticket holders.

The Nintendo Museum is located in [Uji City](e3975.html), ten kilometers south of central [Kyoto](e2158.html). It can be reached by Kintetsu Railway or Japan Railways (JR). Note that there is no parking available around the museum, and visitors are asked to use public transportation.

### By Kintetsu Railway

The closest station to the museum is Ogura Station along the Kintetsu Kyoto Line (20 minutes, 360 yen one way from Kyoto Station). The museum can be reached in a 3-5 minute walk from Ogura Station's east exit.

### By Japan Railways

The closest JR station to the museum is JR Ogura Station along the JR Nara Line (25 minutes, 310 yen one way from Kyoto Station, covered by [JR passes](e2357.html)). The museum is a ten minute walk from the station.

Alternatively, the Nintendo Museum can be reached in about a 30 minute walk from JR Uji Station in central [Uji](e3975.html). A [taxi](e2021.html) ride costs around 1000 yen one way.

[How to get to and around Uji](e3976.html)