---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3040.html
title: Shinagawa
description: Visitor guide for Shinagawa, a district and major transportation hub in Tokyo.
keywords: shinagawa, tokyo, transportation, shopping, hotels, tokaido, post, town
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3290
char_count: 22914
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:57:48
---

Shinagawa (品川) is one of [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s 23 city wards, and Shinagawa Station is one of the city's busiest stations. Its convenience as a transportation hub has attracted many [hotels](/hotels/tokyo.html), offices, [restaurants](e2036.html) and [shops](e3053.html). Shinagawa has been catering to travelers at least since the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868), when it was the first stop on the main road linking Tokyo with [Kyoto](e2158.html).

Shinagawa Station is one of the principal transportation hubs of Tokyo. The station is served by many lines, including the [Yamanote Line](e2370.html) and the [Tokaido Shinkansen](e2018_tokaido.html). Direct train connections to both [Haneda Airport](e2430.html) and [Narita Airport](e2027.html) are provided, and Haneda is just a 15 minute ride away. The station will gain even further prominence in the late 2020s when it is scheduled to become the Tokyo terminal of the new [maglev](e2018.html#future) train line to [Nagoya](e2155.html).

Shinagawa Station

Shinagawa Station has two exits, around which much development has taken and will continue to take place: the Takanawa Exit on the west side, and the Konan Exit on the east side. The **Takanawa side** has many hotels, especially of the Prince Hotel brand. There are also a number of shopping malls, including the Shinagawa Prince Hotel complex, which includes cinemas, bowling and the **Maxell Aqua Park Shinagawa**, an [aquarium](e2425.html) with a variety of sea creatures.

The area around the **Konan Exit** features many large office buildings and company headquarters. The buildings have been designed to meet all the needs of the workers; dining and shopping is available on the first few floors of each building, and a large garden space has been built to give the area a pleasant atmosphere.

Business district on the Konan side of Shinagawa Station

Shinagawa developed into an important town in the early [1600s](e2128.html) after the construction of the **Tokaido**, the principal route connecting Edo (modern day Tokyo) and [Kyoto](e2158.html). Shinagawa was the first of 53 [post towns](e2422.html) along the way after departing from [Nihonbashi](e3033.html). Post towns provided food and lodgings for travelers, much like the hotels of Shinagawa do nowadays.

Eventually Tokyo expanded and absorbed Shinagawa. The rustic feel of a post town was replaced with the familiar trappings of a modern Japanese city. However, the former Tokaido road south of the station has retained a certain charm with a few minor shrines, temples and sites of interest. A small information center is located along the road near the Ebara Shrine.

Former Tokaido Road

Shinagawa is a major station on the [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html) and the [Tokaido Shinkansen](e2018_tokaido.html), the [JR Keihin-Tohoku Line](e2371.html), JR Tokaido Main Line, JR Yokosuka Line and Keikyu Main Line.

### From Tokyo Station

10 minutes and 180 yen by JR Yamanote Line or JR Keihin-Tohoku Line.

### From Shinjuku Station

18 minutes and 210 yen by JR Yamanote Line.

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)