---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3503.html
title: Mount Shosha Engyoji Temple
description: Visitor guide for Mount Shosha, a temple mountain outside of Himeji, site of Engyoji Temple.
keywords: mount, shosha, engyoji, temple, himeji, last, samurai, Shoshazan
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1929
char_count: 12392
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:32:16
---

Daikodo (main hall)

Mount Shosha (書写山, Shoshazan) is the site of Engyoji (円教寺, Engyōji), an atmospheric [temple](e2058.html) complex with a history of over 1000 years. Located at the edge of [Himeji City](e3500.html), the mountain can be accessed in only 30 minutes from the city center [by bus and ropeway](#section_get_there).

Engyoji's temple buildings are spread over a spacious, densely forested area on the mountain top. From the ropeway station it takes a 10-15 minute walk uphill to reach the Niomon Gate and another 10-15 minutes to reach the **Maniden**, a beautiful wooden temple hall, constructed on pillars on a steep slope. Alternatively, a minibus operates between the upper ropeway station and the Maniden every 20 minutes (500 yen for a round trip).

Terrace of the Maniden

Another five minute walk along forest trails brings you to the three massive wooden temple halls, known as **Mitsunodo**: the Daikodo (main hall), Jikido (lodging and dining hall, now exhibiting temple treasures) and Jogyodo (gymnasium). More buildings and an observation point with views over [Himeji](e3500.html) are located even further along the trails in the Okunoin area.

Due to the beautiful scenery and absence of modern infrastructure on its temple grounds, Mount Shosha is frequently used as a filming location for historical movies and TV dramas. Besides mostly domestic productions, the Hollywood movie "The Last Samurai" was partially shot on the mountain, incorporating scenes taken around and inside the halls of Mitsunodo.

Niomon Gate

Take bus number 10 from Himeji Station (North Exit) or [Himeji Castle](e3501.html) to the terminal stop "Mount Shosha Ropeway" (書写山ロープウェイ, 30 minutes, 320 yen one way, every 20 minutes). Then, take the ropeway up the mountain (700 yen one way, 1200 yen round trip, every 15 minutes). Alternatively, it is possible to hike up the mountain in about 45-60 minutes.

There exists a combination ticket that includes a round trip by bus from Himeji Station to the ropeway station and the ropeway round trip for 1700 yen. It is available at the ticket counter of the Shinki Bus Terminal in front of Himeji Station.

Alternatively, the [Himeji & Shoshazan Engyoji Special Combo Ticket](https://shinkibus-tour-en.book.ntmg.com/top/products/e60d8911-b517-533f-a62e-363a41a7f595?lng=en-US) is a digital ticket that includes 2 days of unlimited rides on buses in Himeji, the ropeway round trip and admission to Engyoji Temple for 2400 yen. It pays off for those who wish to use buses for more than just the round trip to Mount Shosha, for example, also between Himeji Station and the castle.

[How to get to and around Himeji](e3504.html)