---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3920.html
title: Honganji Temples (Higashi Honganji and Nishi Honganji)
description: Visitor guide for Nishi and Higashi Honganji, two Buddhist temples in Kyoto.
keywords: nishi, higashi, honganji, kyoto, temple, jodo, shin, buddhism
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3189
char_count: 22263
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:43:14
---

Nishi Honganji (西本願寺) and Higashi Honganji (東本願寺) are two large [temples](e2058.html) in the center of [Kyoto](e2158.html). As headquarters of the two factions of the [Jodo-Shin Sect](e2055.html) (True Pure Land Sect), one of Japan's most popular Buddhist sects, they are a good place to experience contemporary [Japanese Buddhism](e2055.html).

**Nishi Honganji** (West Honganji) was built in 1591 by [Toyotomi Hideyoshi](e2123.html), after the sect's former head temple, Ishiyama Honganji in Osaka had been destroyed by [Oda Nobunaga](e2123.html) due to the temple's interference in politics. Nishi Honganji is the head temple of the Honganji faction of the Jodo-Shin sect with over 10,000 subtemples across Japan and 200 temples overseas.

Nishi Honganji's two largest structures are the Goeido Hall, dedicated to Shinran, the sect's founder, and the Amidado Hall dedicated to the Amida Buddha, the most important Buddha in Jodo-Shin Buddhism. The temple also displays some surviving masterpieces of architecture from the [Azuchi-Momoyama Period](e2123.html) and early [Edo Period](e2128.html), including the celebrated Hiunkaku Pavilion. Nishi Honganji is designated an [UNESCO World Heritage Site](e2251.html).

Nishi Honganji's Goeido (left) and Amidado (right)

**Higashi Honganji** (East Honganji) was built only eleven years after and a few street blocks east of Nishi Honganji as the head temple of the Otani faction of Jodo-shin Buddhism. Its main hall, the Goeido is [Kyoto](e2158.html)'s largest wooden structure and dedicated to Shinran, the sect's founder. Next to it and almost as large is the Amidado Hall, dedicated to the Amida Buddha.

A small Japanese [garden](e2099.html) named **Shoseien** is located another few street blocks east of Higashi Honganji and serves as a detached temple residence of Higashi Honganji. Today, the garden with its pond and beautiful [autumn colors](e2014.html) is open to the public.

Shoseien Garden

The Honganji temples are located a 10-15 minute walk north of [Kyoto Station](e3922.html).

[How to get to and around Kyoto](e2363.html)