---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3806.html
title: Lake Chuzenji (Chuzenjiko)
description: Visitor guide for Lake Chuzenji (Chuzenjiko) in Nikko National Park.
keywords: chuzenji, lake, chuzenjiko, okunikko, nikko, national, park
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2708
char_count: 18258
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:01:41
---

Lake Chuzenji (中禅寺湖, Chūzenjiko) is a scenic lake in the mountains above the town of [Nikko](e3800.html). It is located at the foot of Mount Nantai, Nikko's sacred volcano, whose eruption blocked the valley below, thereby creating Lake Chuzenji about 20,000 years ago.

Chuzenjiko's shores are mostly undeveloped and forested except at the lake's eastern end where the small [hot spring](e2292.html) town of Chuzenji Onsen was built. The town is also the site of [Kegon Waterfall](e3812.html), the most famous of several waterfalls in Nikko National Park. Another popular waterfall, [Ryuzu Waterfall](e3813.html), is located at the northern shores of Lake Chuzenji where Yukawa River discharges into the lake.

Chuzenjiko is especially beautiful in mid to late October, when the [autumn colors](e2014.html) reach their peak along the lake's shores and surrounding mountains. And during Japan's hot summers, the lake's high elevation (1269 meters above sea level) keeps the area cool and comfortable, which in the past has attracted foreign embassies to build recreation villas along its shores.

It is possible to hike around the entire 25 kilometer circumference of Lake Chuzenji via hilly lakeside walking trails. Alternatively, the lake can be enjoyed from sightseeing boats that depart from Chuzenji Onsen. Panoramic views from above are possible from along the [Chuzenjiko Skyline](e3815.html), an eight kilometer long former toll road which is now free of charge.

* 

  [Irohazaka Winding Road](e3816.html)

  This famous road connects Lake Chuzenji with the town of [Nikko](e3800.html) down in the valley. It ascends more than 400 meters and is named "Iroha Slope" because its 48 turns used to equal the number of characters in the Japanese [syllabary](e2047.html), formerly referred to as "iroha". [Autumn colors](e2014.html) along the road can usually be enjoyed from mid October to early November, and are a cause of traffic jams.
* 

  [Akechidaira Plateau](e3819.html)

  Located at the top of the Irohazaka Winding Road, shortly before reaching Lake Chuzenji, the [Akechidaira Plateau](e3819.html) is a small parking lot with panoramic views over the winding road and the valley below. A ropeway lifts visitors in three minutes from the parking lot to an observation platform with views of [Kegon Waterfall](e3812.html) in combination with Lake Chuzenji.
* 

  Chuzenji Onsen

  Chuzenji Onsen is a touristy [hot spring](e2292.html) resort town at the eastern shores of Lake Chuzenji and at the foot of Mount Nantai. The small town consists mainly of souvenir shops, hotels and ryokan, but also offers some sightseeing spots, including [Chuzenji Temple](e3820.html), a [Futarasan Shrine](e3806.html#futarasan), a [nature museum](e3806.html#nature) and, most of all, [Kegon Waterfall](e3812.html). It is also the departure point of sightseeing cruises of the lake.
* 

  [Kegon Waterfall](e3812.html)

  See admission details on our [Kegon Waterfall](e3812.html) page

  The almost 100 meter tall [Kegon Waterfall](e3812.html) (Kegon no taki) is the most famous of [Nikko](e3800.html)'s many beautiful waterfalls. It can be viewed free of charge from an upper observation platform or from an observation platform at the waterfall's base, which is reached via a paid elevator ride.
* 

  Nikko Natural Science Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (Apr to mid Nov), 10:00 to 16:00 (mid Nov to Mar)  
  Admission: 510 yen  
  Closed: Mondays from December to April; December 29 to January 3

  The Nikko Natural Science Museum, which stands just next to the Chuzenji Onsen bus terminal, explores the history and ecology of Nikko National Park. The displays are informative and well presented with multilingual explanations. A large, multi screen video display highlights [Nikko](e3800.html)'s four seasons.
* 

  Futarasan Shrine

  Hours: 8:00 to 17:00 (Apr to Oct), 9:00 to 16:00 (Nov to Mar)  
  Admission: Free

  The second of [Nikko](e3800.html)'s three [Futarasan Shrines](e3804.html) stands at the shores of Lake Chuzenji, at the base of sacred Mount Nantai. The shrine marks the trailhead of the hiking course to the summit. Futarasan's main shrine stands down in central Nikko, while the third shrine stands on the summit of Mount Nantai.
* 

  [Chuzenji Temple](e3820.html)

  See admission details on our [Chuzenji Temple](e3820.html) page

  [Chuzenji Temple](e3820.html) was built around a unique statue of Kannon. Many centuries ago the statue was carved out of a tree trunk that still stands today with its roots in the ground. The temple also affords nice views over the lake which was named after it.
* 

  Italian Embassy Villa

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (until 16:00 in April and November 11-30)  
  Admission: 300 yen (450 yen together with the British Embassy Villa)  
  Closed: December to March, Mondays in April

  This elegant complex along the shore of Lake Chuzenji was the former summer residence of the Italian Ambassador to Japan. It was later donated to [Tochigi Prefecture](/list/e1210.html) and opened to the public.
* 

  British Embassy Villa

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (until 16:00 in April and November 11-30)  
  Admission: 300 yen (450 yen together with the Italian Embassy Villa)  
  Closed: December to March, Mondays in April

  Formerly a holiday home of Ernest Satow, an influential British diplomat during the [Meiji Restoration](e2130.html), this villa later became a British Embassy villa before being opened to the public. The building was restored in 2016, and inside are exhibitions on Satow's life in Japan as well as on British culture. There is also a cafe where visitors can drink English tea overlooking Lake Chuzenji.
* 

  [Mount Hangetsuyama](e3815.html)

  Hours: Always open  
  Admission: Free viewing platform

  [Mount Hangetsuyama](e3815.html) lies at the southeastern corner of Lake Chuzenji. The observation deck close to the top of the mountain offers great views onto the lake and Mount Nantai. During fall each year, [autumn colors](e2014.html) add to the scenery viewed from here, making this a popular [autumn leaf spot](e2014_where.html).
* 

  Sightseeing Boat Cruise

  Available from mid April through November

  Sightseeing cruises are another way to view the area and get around. Hourly boats circle the lake counter-clockwise, stopping at Chuzenji Onsen, Shobugahama Pier near [Ryuzu Waterfall](e3813.html), a pier near the [Italian and British embassy villas](#italian) and [Chuzenji Temple](e3820.html). In June only, a line also serves Senjugahama at the lake's western end.
* 

  [Ryuzu Waterfall](e3813.html)

  Hours: Always open  
  Admission: Free viewing platform

  [Ryuzu Waterfall](e3813.html) ("dragon head waterfall") is named for its resemblance to the head of a dragon. It is one of [Nikko's most famous autumn color spots](e3817.html), usually at the peak of its autumnal beauty in early October.

Chuzenji Onsen is connected with central [Nikko](e3800.html) by Tobu [bus](e2015.html). The buses leave from JR and Tobu Nikko stations and are bound for Chuzenji Onsen or [Yumoto Onsen](e3807.html). There are about three buses per hour. The one way trip from Tobu Nikko Station to Chuzenji Onsen takes about 50 minutes, costs 1250 yen and is covered by the [Nikko All Area Pass](e2358_002.html).

A 2-day pass for unlimited bus rides between Nikko and Chuzenji Onsen is available for 2300 yen at Tobu Nikko Station.

Note that during the [autumn leaf](e2014.html) season in October, traffic between central Nikko and Lake Chuzenji can be very heavy, and buses can incur heavy delays, especially on weekends. The [Irohazaka Winding Road](e3816.html) becomes particularly congested. If possible, try to visit during the week and not on weekends.

Sightseeing boats can sometimes double as a way to get between destinations around Lake Chuzenji, although they would only make sense if the original intention is to tour the lake by them. The sightseeing boats making a loop around the lake (one hour, 1680 yen, hourly departures) operate only from the second week of April through November. From Chuzenji Onsen, these boats make stops at Shobugahama (20 minutes, 780 yen) and close to [Chuzenji Temple](e3820.html) (50 minutes, 1480 yen). Infrequent boats go between Shobugahama and Senjugahama in June (40 minutes, 1200 yen).

[How to get to and around Nikko](e3805.html)