---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3118.html
title: Meigetsuin Temple (Ajisaidera)
description: Visitor guide for Meigetsuin, also known as Ajisaidera because of its many hydrangea flowers, located in Kamakura.
keywords: meigetsuin, ajisai, temple, ajisaidera, dera, hydrangea, kamakura
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1873
char_count: 12427
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:42:03
---

Meigetsuin Temple (明月院) is a temple of the Rinzai [Zen Sect](e2055.html) founded in 1160 in [Kamakura](e2166.html). It is also known as **Ajisaidera** ("Hydrangea Temple") because [hydrangeas](e2423_ajisai.html) bloom in abundance on the temple grounds during the [rainy season](e2277.html) around June. 95% of the hydrangeas here are of the Hime Ajisai ("Princess Hydrangea") variety, which are colored blue.

The [temple](e2058.html) was originally a repose built by a son in memory of his father who had died in the struggle for power between the Taira and Minamoto clans in the late [Heian Period](e2132.html) (794-1185). It later became part of a larger temple complex called Zenkoji, which was abolished during anti-Buddhist movements soon after the [Meiji Restoration](e2130.html) of 1868, leaving only Meigetsuin to remain as an individual temple today.

In the back of Meigetsuin's lush temple grounds stands the **main hall** (Hojo). The building features a nice circular window, which frames the scenery of the inner garden behind it. The **inner garden** is known for its irises and is open to visitors only during two periods of about two weeks per year: in June when the irises are in bloom, and in late November/early December when the [autumn colors](e2014.html) are at their best. An additional admission fee applies.

Circular window in the main hall

Also of interest is the **founder's hall** (Soyudo), a thatched roof building that enshrines the temple's founder and stores mortuary tablets of the succeeding head priests. Next to the hall is a **cave** (yagura) that was dug into the side of the hill many centuries ago. The cave served as a tomb and is among the largest of multiple such caves found in the hills around [Kamakura](e2166.html).

Due to the temple's connection to the moon (Meigetsu literally means "bright moon"; and phonetically can also mean "harvest moon"), **rabbits** are associated with it in relation to the Japanese folklore of a rabbit pounding a rice cake on the moon. Accordingly, rabbit designs are found on some of the temple's decorations, while a few real rabbits are kept in cages.

Irises at the inner garden

Meigetsuin can be reached in a ten minute walk from Kita-Kamakura Station.

[How to get to and around Kamakura](e3115.html)