---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3031.html
title: Roppongi
description: Visitor guide for Roppongi, a district in central Tokyo.
keywords: roppongi, tokyo, hills, midtown, nightlife, art
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3240
char_count: 23009
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:00:57
---

Roppongi Crossing in the district's center

Roppongi (六本木, lit. "six trees") is a district in [Tokyo](e2164.html) that is well known as the city's most popular [nightlife district](#ropponginightlife) among foreigners, offering a large number of foreigner-friendly bars, restaurants and night clubs. Roppongi and the surrounding districts of Azabu, Hiroo and Akasaka are home to many embassies and a large expat community.

Two of Tokyo's largest recent redevelopment projects, [Roppongi Hills](#roppongihills) and [Tokyo Midtown](#tokyomidtown) changed the district's face in the 2000s and expanded Roppongi's appeal to a wider range of visitors and residents with their elegant retail, business and residential space and luxury hotels.

Thanks to the appearance of several art museums, Roppongi has also developed a reputation as a cultural center. The [National Art Center](#shinbijutsu) is one of Japan's largest art museums, and together with Roppongi Hills' [Mori Art Museum](e3031_hills.html#mori) and Tokyo Midtown's [Suntory Museum of Art](e3031_midtown.html#suntory) form the "Art Triangle Roppongi".

* 

  [Roppongi Hills](e3031_hills.html)

  Opened in 2003, [Roppongi Hills](e3031_hills.html) is a [city within the city](e3027.html), providing residential space, offices and recreational facilities all within one building complex. Tourist attractions include shops, restaurants, a movie theater and the [Mori Art Museum](e3031_hills.html#mori) and [Tokyo City View](e3031_hills.html#cityview) observation deck on the top floors of the 238 meter tall Mori Tower.
* 

  [Tokyo Midtown](e3031_midtown.html)

  Another [city within the city](e3027.html), [Tokyo Midtown](e3031_midtown.html) was opened in 2007 and offers similar residential, commercial and entertainment facilities as [Roppongi Hills](#roppongihills). The complex also has a museum, the [Suntory Museum of Art](e3031_midtown.html#suntory), as well as stylish shops and restaurants. The top floors of the 248 meter Midtown Tower, Tokyo's tallest building until 2014, make up the [Ritz-Carlton Tokyo](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/the-ritz-carlton-tokyo.html?aid=371183), one of the [city's best hotels](/hotels/tokyo.html).
* 

  National Art Center Tokyo

  Open: 10:00 to 18:00 (some exhibitions open until 20:00 on Fri and Sat)  
  Admission ends 30 minutes before closing  
  Closed: Tuesdays (or following day if Tue is a  [holiday](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission: Varies with each exhibition

  Opened in 2007, the National Art Center Tokyo (Kokuritsu Shin-Bijutsukan) is one of Japan's largest art museums. The museum maintains no permanent collection, but rather provides a venue for various, temporary exhibitions.
* 

  Roppongi Nightlife

  Roppongi has been a popular nightlife district among foreigners for decades. Unlike other entertainment districts in [Tokyo](e2164.html), it offers many restaurants, bars and clubs, which are easily accessible for foreigners or even cater specifically to the expat community.

Roppongi can be reached by the Hibiya and Oedo subway lines (Roppongi Station) and the Nanboku Subway Line (Roppongi-Icchome Station).

### From Tokyo Station

15 minutes, 180 yen by Marunouchi and Hibiya Subway Lines via Kasumigaseki Station.

### From Shinjuku Station

10 minutes, 220 yen by direct Oedo Subway Line.

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)