---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3875.html
title: Kinugawa Onsen Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Kinugawa Onsen, a hot spring resort not far from Nikko in Tochigi Prefecture.
keywords: kinugawa, onsen, hot, springs, travel, guide, tourist, tourism, visitor, visit, trip
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1877
char_count: 12567
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 11:40:11
---

Kinugawa Onsen (鬼怒川温泉) is a popular [hot spring](e2292.html) resort town along the Kinugawa River in [Tochigi Prefecture](/list/e1210.html). The town is centered around the large hotel [ryokan](e2029.html) lining the riverbank, and offers many amusements such as the [Tobu World Square](e3878.html) and [Nikko Edomura](e3879.html) theme parks in addition to its [hot spring baths](e2292.html).

Kinugawa was extensively developed in past decades, when many of the large [ryokan](e2029.html) complexes were built. Several of these have gone out of business over the years, leaving behind abandoned buildings on the riverbank. In response, the town has stepped up efforts in recent years to beautify the riverfront by removing some of the abandoned buildings while adding nature trails, parks and footbaths.

Kinugawa Onsen is close to [Nikko](e3800.html), and is included in the free travel zone of the [Nikko Passes](e2358_002.html) to the area. The town is a good place to overnight when visiting Nikko and can add a little fun and relaxation to complement the culture and nature of Nikko.

* [](/e/e3883.html)

  1

  Onsen

  [Okukinu Onsen•](/e/e3883.html)

  Remote, rustic hot spring with excellent baths.

  4.2

  

  46
* [](/e/e3879.html)

  2

  Amusement Park

  [Nikko Edomura•](/e/e3879.html)

  Theme park about feudal Japan

  3.6

  

  174
* [](/e/e3878.html)

  3

  Amusement Park

  [Tobu World Square•](/e/e3878.html)

  Landmarks from across the world in miniature.

  3.5

  

  135
* [](/e/e3880.html)

  4

  Amusement Park

  [Grand Maze•](/e/e3880.html)

  Takes an average of 40 minutes to complete.

  3.4

  

  32
* [](/e/e3882.html)

  5

  Onsen

  [Yunishigawa Onsen](/e/e3882.html)

  Remote hot spring town known for its winter festival.

  4.0

  

  47
* [](/e/e3877.html)

  6

  Onsen

  [Hot Springs](/e/e3877.html)

  Hot spring baths of Kinugawa Onsen.

  3.7

  

  253
* [](/e/e3881.html)

  7

  Scenic Ride

  [River Cruise](/e/e3881.html)

  With wooden boats down the Kinugawa River.

  3.3

  

  48

Nearby Attractions

* [](/e/e3800.html)

  1

  [Nikko•••](/e/e3800.html)

  Site of Nikko Toshogu, Ieyasu's mausoleum.

  4.4

  

  3,347
* [](/e/e3860.html)

  2

  [Utsunomiya](/e/e3860.html)

  Prefectural capital of Tochigi Prefecture.

  2.8

  

  82

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Kinugawa](/e/e3875.html)

[Getting to and around Kinugawa Onsen](/e/e3876.html)
[See access info](/e/e3876.html)

Getting In:

[Nikko Pass](/e/e2358_002.html)