---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3913.html
title: Tenryuji Temple
description: Visitor guide for Tenryuji, a Zen temple in Kyoto's Arashiyama district.
keywords: tenryuji, tenryu, temple, kyoto, zen, arashiyama
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3248
char_count: 22745
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:43:02
---

Tenryuji's Kuri building

Tenryuji (天龍寺, Tenryūji) is the most important [temple](e2058.html) in [Kyoto](e2158.html)'s [Arashiyama](e3912.html) district. It was ranked first among the city's five great [Zen](e2055.html) temples, and is now registered as a [world heritage site](e2251.html). Tenryuji is the head temple of its own school within the Rinzai Zen sect of [Japanese Buddhism](e2055.html).

Tenryuji was built in 1339 by the ruling shogun [Ashikaga Takauji](e2134.html). Takauji dedicated the temple to Emperor Go-Daigo, who had just passed away. The two important historic figures used to be allies until Takauji turned against the emperor in a struggle for supremacy over Japan. By building the temple, Takauji intended to appease the former emperor's spirit.

Inside the Drawing Hall (Shoin)

Tenryuji's **buildings** were repeatedly lost in fires and wars over the centuries, and most of the current halls, including the main hall (Hojo), drawing hall (Shoin) and temple kitchen (Kuri) with its distinctive small tower, date from the relatively recent [Meiji Period](e2130.html) (1868-1912).

Unlike the temple buildings, Tenryuji's **garden** survived the centuries in its original form. Created by the famous garden designer Muso Soseki, who also designed the gardens of [Kokedera](e3937.html) and other important temples, the beautiful [landscape garden](e2099.html) features a central pond surrounded by rocks, pine trees and the forested [Arashiyama](e3912.html) mountains. Muso Soseki also served as Tenryuji's first head priest.

Tenryuji is just a short walk from the Keifuku Arashiyama Station, which is connected by the small Keifuku trains (also referred to as Randen) with the [Ryoanji](e3909.html)/[Kinkakuji](e3908.html) area and Omiya Station along Shijo-dori Street. The temple can also be reached in a 5-10 minute walk from JR Saga-Arashiyama Station (10-15 minutes, 240 yen one way from [Kyoto Station](e3922.html)).

[How to get to and around Kyoto](e2363.html)