---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3916.html
title: Daigoji Temple
description: Visitor guide for Daigoji, a Buddhist temple in Kyoto.
keywords: daigoji, temple, kyoto, japan
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3417
char_count: 23569
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:44:02
---

Bentendo Hall

Daigoji (醍醐寺) is an important [temple](e2058.html) of the Shingon sect of [Japanese Buddhism](e2055.html) and a [World Heritage Site](e2251.html). The large temple complex stands southeast of central [Kyoto](e2158.html) and includes an entire mountainside. The main temple grounds are located at the base of the mountain and are connected via a hiking trail to several more temple buildings around the summit.

Upon entering the main temple grounds, visitors will first come across the **Sanboin**, the elegant former residence of the head priest, which was originally constructed in 1115. The current building, along with its outstanding [landscape garden](e2099.html) dates to 1598 when it was reconstructed and expanded for [Toyotomi Hideyoshi](e2123.html)'s famous [cherry blossom viewing](e2011.html) party held here. The building remains an excellent example of extravagant [Momoyama](e2123.html) architecture and should not be missed.

Five storied Pagoda in the Shimo Daigo area

A short walk further into the temple grounds gets you to the **Shimo Daigo** (Lower Daigo) area where most of the [temple](e2058.html)'s other important buildings stand. Among them is the Kondo Hall or main hall, which was originally built in 926. The current building was relocated to Daigoji in 1599 and stores the temple's main object of worship, a seated statue of the Yakushi Buddha.

Also in the Shimo Daigo area stands a 38 meter tall, five storied pagoda, which is [Kyoto](e2158.html)'s oldest verified building. Built in 951, the pagoda is the only structure to survive the fires that have repeatedly destroyed Daigoji over the centuries. And finally there is the Bentendo Hall, probably Daigoji's most photographed building, next to a pond in the very back of the Shimo Daigo area. The hall is especially beautiful with [autumn colors](e2014.html) around late November.

Reihokan Museum

Also located on the main temple grounds at the base of the mountain is the **Reihokan Museum**, an elegant treasure house, which displays the temple's large collection of historical objects, including statues, documents and paintings. Some of the temple's most impressive weeping [cherry trees](e2011.html) stand in the museum's garden and usually bloom in early April.

In the very back of the lower temple grounds, not far from the Bentendo Hall, is the trailhead to the **Kami Daigo** (Upper Daigo), Daigoji's original temple grounds, which are located around the summit of the mountain. It takes about one hour to climb the steep trail through the forest. Those who make the climb are rewarded by more wooden halls set along the quiet forested mountainside and views over the plain as far as [Osaka](e2157.html) on clear days.

Kami Daigo

Daigoji Temple is located a 15 minute walk or short [bus](e2015.html) ride by community bus number 4 (210 yen, every 30 minutes) from Daigo Station along the Tozai Subway Line. From [Kyoto Station](e3922.html), take a JR train to Yamashina Station (5 minutes, 180 yen) and transfer to the Tozai Subway Line (8 minutes, 260 yen). Alternatively, take Keihan Bus number 22 or 22A from Yamashina Station to Daigoji (20 minutes, 220 yen, departures every 20 minutes).

Keihan Bus number 301 connects Kyoto Station (Hachijo side) with Daigoji once or twice per hour. The one way trip takes 30 minutes and costs 260 yen.

[How to get to and around Kyoto](e2363.html)