---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3947.html
title: Yoshiminedera Temple
description: Visitor guide for Yoshiminedera Temple, located in the outskirts of Kyoto.
keywords: yoshiminedera, temple, kyoto, japan
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3316
char_count: 22897
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:43:24
---

Yoshiminedera (善峯寺) is a [temple](e2058.html) of the Tendai sect of [Japanese Buddhism](e2055.html) located in [Kyoto](e2158.html)'s western mountains. Similar to [Kiyomizudera](e3901.html) on the opposite side of town, Yoshiminedera is built along the mountain side and looks out onto Kyoto. The temple grounds are spacious, and there are many buildings distributed up the mountain side.

A priest from [Enryakuji](e3911.html), named Gesan, established Yoshiminedera as a personal retreat in 1029. In 1467 the temple was destroyed in the Onin War but was rebuilt in 1621. The temple's main objects of worship are a Kannon statue carved by Gesan and a Kannon statue given to the temple by Emperor Gosuzaku in 1042.

The Hondo

Yoshiminedera's main building, the Hondo, is located just after the Sanmon, the temple's main entrance gate. Beside the Hondo stands a treasure house, where some of the temple's artifacts are on display. Paths lead up the mountainside from these buildings with numerous smaller temple structures along the way. The views onto the city below are quite impressive.

In addition to the buildings, the temple has a few revered trees. One of these is a unique 600 year old pine tree that is only 2 meters tall but 40 meters wide. The temple area is particularly beautiful in combination with the [changing colors](e2014.html) of the fall season, which attract considerable crowds and are usually best in the second half of November.

Hankyu Bus stopped providing public transportation to Yoshiminedera in May 2025, and it is now difficult to access the temple without a [car](e2024.html).

Take either the JR Kyoto Line from [Kyoto Station](e3922.html) to Mukomachi Station (7 minutes, 200 yen) or the Hankyu Kyoto Line from central Kyoto to Higashimuko Station (20 minutes, 240 yen). From either station, take Hankyu Bus #63 to Haigata (灰方, 15 minutes, 290 yen one way, every 2 hours), from where it is about 3.5 kilometers or a 45-60 minute walk to the temple.

Alternatively a [taxi](e2021.html) ride from either station to the temple takes about 20 minutes and costs around 3000-3500 yen one way.

[How to get to and around Kyoto](e2363.html)