---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3702.html
title: Tokyo to Hirosaki\: How to get to and around Hirosaki
description: How to get to and around Hirosaki.
keywords: hirosaki, access, orientation, transportation, directions, getting there, bus, train
content_type: attraction
word_count: 561
char_count: 4130
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:31:14
---

From/To:

TokyoOsakaKyotoAomoriHachimantai

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

Take a Hayabusa train along the [Tohoku Shinkansen](e2018_tohoku.html) from [Tokyo](e2164.html) to Shin-Aomori (3.5 hours) and transfer to a [local train](e2016.html) to [Hirosaki](e3701.html) (30-40 minutes). The entire one way trip takes around 4.5 hours, costs about 18,000 yen and is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html) and [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html). Seat reservations are mandatory on Hayabusa trains between Tokyo and Shin-Aomori. There is about one connection per hour.

JAL operates multiple [flights](e2365.html) per day between [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s [Haneda Airport](e2430.html) and Aomori Airport. Flight duration is 85 minutes. The regular one way fare is around 41,000 yen, however, [discount tickets](e2365.html) are typically available for around 14,000 to 18,000 yen. A bus runs between Aomori Airport and [Hirosaki](e3701.html) (station and bus terminal), taking one hour and costing 1200 yen.

Airfares from Tokyo to Aomori over the next 30 days

December 23, 2025 - January 21, 2026

| Airline | Lowest fare | Average lowest fare |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [JAL](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=AOJ&outboundDate=2026-01-19&airlines=JL) | [10,130 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=AOJ&outboundDate=2026-01-19&airlines=JL) | [16,261 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=AOJ&outboundDate=2026-01-19&airlines=JL) |

[Book Now](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&locale=en-GB&origin=TYO&destination=AOJ&outboundDate=2026-01-13)

Various companies operate daytime and overnight [highway buses](e2366.html) between [Tokyo](e2164.html) and [Aomori](e3750.html), which stop along the way at [Hirosaki](e3701.html). The one way journey takes 9-10 hours and costs 4,000 to 12,000 yen depending on the date of travel. Online reservation for some of the buses can be made via [Willer](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/aomori/hirosaki/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184).

[Book Now](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/aomori/hirosaki/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184)

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

Hirosaki's main attractions are all located close to or within [Hirosaki Park](e3700.html), which lies a 10-15 minute bus ride or a 30 minute walk west of Hirosaki Station.

The **Dotemachi Loop Bus** is a convenient, tourist-oriented bus line that stops at Hirosaki Station and many of Hirosaki's attractions, including [Hirosaki Park](e3700.html). It operates every ten minutes in a clockwise direction. One ride costs 150 yen (130 yen if paid by [IC card](e2359_003.html)), while a day pass for unlimited rides on one calendar day is available for 500 yen.

In addition to the Dotemachi Loop Bus, there are a few other loop bus lines, but they operate considerably less frequently and serve areas less relevant to tourists. Furthermore, there is a network of regular [city buses](e2015.html), which are less easy to use and more expensive, but can be faster than the loop buses.

Rental [bicycles](e2210.html) are another convenient means of getting around. From April to November, they can be rented for 500 yen per day between 9:00 and 16:00 from Hirosaki Station or the [Otemon Square](e3706.html). Electric bicycles are available for 1000 yen per day.