---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3021.html
title: Tsukiji Outer Market
description: Visitor guide for Tsukiji Outer Market in Tokyo.
keywords: tsukiji, fish, outer, market, tokyo
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2901
char_count: 20509
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:00:52
---

Outer Market

Important Notice:

The wholesale market of Tsukiji Market, which was also known as the "inner market" and was famous for its tuna auctions, closed on October 6, 2018 and moved to a new site in [Toyosu](e3013.html) where it reopened as [Toyosu Market](e3013_market.html). **Tsukiji's outer market with its many shops and restaurants did not close and remains in business.**

Tsukiji Outer Market (築地場外市場, Tsukiji Jōgai Shijō) is a district adjacent to the site of the former Tsukiji Wholesale Market. It consists of a few blocks of wholesale and retail shops, as well as [restaurants](e2036.html) crowded along narrow lanes. Here you can find fresh and processed seafood and produce alongside [food](e620.html)-related goods such as knives.

A visit to Tsukiji Outer Market is best combined with a fresh [sushi](e2038.html) breakfast or lunch at one of the local restaurants, which typically open from 5:00 in the morning to around noon or early afternoon. Because most of the fish served and sold at Tsukiji Outer Market is delivered directly from [Toyosu Market](e3013_market.html), it is one of the best places in [Tokyo](e2164.html) to enjoy fresh seafood.

Outer Market

Tsukiji Outer Market is located a short walk from either Tsukiji Shijo Station on the Oedo Subway Line or Tsukiji Station on the Hibiya Subway Line. The closest [JR](e2019.html) station is Shimbashi, from where you can walk to the market in about 20 minutes.

### From Tokyo Station

Take the Marunouchi Subway Line from [Tokyo](e3037.html) to [Ginza](e3005.html) (3 minutes) and transfer to the Hibiya Subway Line to get to Tsukiji Station (3 minutes). The fare is 180 yen.

### From Shinjuku Station

Take the Oedo Subway Line directly from [Shinjuku](e3011.html) Station to Tsukiji Shijo Station. The one way trip takes 20 minutes and costs 280 yen.

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)