---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3753.html
title: Sannai Maruyama Archaeological Site
description: Visitor guide for the Sannai Maruyama Archaeological Site in Aomori City.
keywords: jomon, sannai, maruyama, archaeological, sannai-maruyama, sannaimaruyama, site, park, aomori
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1800
char_count: 11921
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:30:29
---

The Sannai Maruyama Archaeological Site (三内丸山遺跡, Sannai Maruyama Iseki) is the largest and one of the most complete and best preserved villages from the [Jomon Period (13000-300 BC)](e2131.html). Unearthed by accident while surveying land to build a baseball field, the former village once included over 700 structures and dwellings including long houses, storage structures, roads, and trash and burial pits.

After the excavation and study of the site, the village was reburied with earth and a number of reconstructed pit dwellings, long houses and a large tower were built on top. Visitors can enter the reconstructions, some of which are quite large, as well as see a few of the original excavation sites around the grounds.

Hut reconstruction

Adjacent to the excavation site stands the **Jomon Jiyukan** which exhibits objects excavated from the area and explains about the people who lived during the [Jomon Period](e2131.html). It is also possible to try on Jomon period clothing, use tools of the era and try making handicrafts and toys. Typical food that the Sannai Maruyama villagers ate is served at a restaurant.

The Sannai Maruyama Archaeological Site, [together with similar sites](/news/0055.html) in the northern [Tohoku Region](/list/e1102.html) and [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html) was registered as a [World Cultural Heritage Site](e2251.html) in 2021. It is easily visited in combination with nearby [Aomori Museum of Art](e3752.html), which was designed in a style that imitates the excavation site.

Jomon wardrobe in the Jomon Jiyukan

The Sannai Maruyama Jomon Archaeological Site is located next to the Sannai-Maruyama-Iseki-mae bus stop (三内丸山遺跡前), a twenty minute, 310 yen [bus](e2015.html) ride from Aomori Station. It is also a five minute walk from the [Aomori Museum of Art](e3752.html).

[How to get to and around Aomori](e3751.html)