---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3073.html
title: Kanda Matsuri (Kanda Festival)
description: Visitor guide for the Kanda Matsuri, one of Tokyo's three most important festivals.
keywords: kanda, festival, matsuri, tokyo
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3251
char_count: 22928
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:59:46
---

**The next full edition of the Kanda Matsuri is scheduled for May 10-11, 2025**

Held in mid May, the Kanda Matsuri is one of [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s three most famous [festivals](e2063.html), along with the [Sanno Matsuri](e3065.html) and Fukagawa Matsuri. The full version of the festival takes place only in odd-numbered years, while a highly simplified "shadow festival" is held in even-numbered years without attracting the attention of tourists. The Kanda Festival consists of numerous events held over an entire week, but the main action usually happens over the weekend closest to May 15. The highlights are a day-long procession through central Tokyo on Saturday, and parades of portable shrines (mikoshi) by the various neighborhoods on Sunday.

The [festival](e2063.html) started during the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1867). When the [Tokugawa shogun](e2128.html) began to rule the country from Edo (present day [Tokyo](e2164.html)), the festival was celebrated as a demonstration of prosperity under the new regime. Then, the Kanda Matsuri and the [Sanno Matsuri](e3065.html) were the only two festivals that were allowed to pass through the [Edo Castle](e3018.html) grounds. Both were originally held annually, but after competition between the two had grown too intense, they were eventually ordered to be held in alternate years only.

The Kanda Matsuri is the festival of the [Kanda Myojin Shrine](e3074.html) which enshrines three deities: Daikokuten, the god of good harvest and matrimony; Ebisu, the god of fishermen and businessmen; and Taira Masakado, a rebellious feudal lord of the 10th century who was revered and deified. Over the years, the Kanda Festival came to be a celebration for the wealth and good fortune of the people.

Men dressed in samurai armor

### Saturday - main procession

In the evening before the main procession, [Shinto](e2056.html) rituals are held to invite the spirits of the shrine's three deities into three ornately decorated [mikoshi](e2063.html). These portable shrines constitute the most important part of the procession that takes place on Saturday when they are paraded through the streets of [Kanda](e3074.html), [Nihonbashi](e3033.html), Otemachi and [Akihabara](e3003.html). Accompanying the mikoshi are about a thousand people, including musicians, priests on horses, and many dressed in colorful traditional costumes.

The 2025 procession route

The procession leaves Kanda Myojin Shrine at 7:50 in the morning. At around 10:00, a brief stop is made for prayers at the shrine's former grounds near the [Tokyo Imperial Palace](e3017.html). The procession continues through the Otemachi and [Kanda](e3074.html) districts before a break for lunch is made around 13:10. After the procession resumes, it passes near the [Nihonbashi Bridge](e3033.html) and by the Nihonbashi Mitsukoshi department store around 16:20. It then proceeds along Chuo-dori Street through the [Akihabara](e3003.html) district before returning to the [shrine](e2059.html) around 18:20.

Also on Saturday, a secondary procession is held from later in the afternoon. It starts at 15:00 from close to the Arima Elementary School and proceeds north to the Kanda Myojin Shrine in about two hours. This procession features crowd favorites such as men on horses clad in [samurai](e2127.html) uniforms, festival floats with characters from popular folk stories and contemporary pop culture, musicians and dancers.

Parading the main mikoshi through the streets of Tokyo

### Sunday - mikoshi parades

On the following day, the spectacle continues with mikoshi parades by various neighborhoods in the [Kanda](e3074.html) and [Nihonbashi](e3033.html) districts. In line with custom, every neighborhood has a local guardian deity (ujigami) who looks after the community and their families. During the parades, the ujigami are temporarily housed in mikoshi (portable shrines) and walked through the streets to bless the local residents.

The 2025 parade routes

A good location to catch the activity is along the main approach to Kanda Myojin Shrine, since most of the mikoshi eventually make their way to the [shrine](e2059.html). From around 9:00 to 19:00, the various neighborhoods with their respective mikoshi take turns to enter the shrine, resulting in streets full of vibrant colors, infectious festival music and a joyful atmosphere. Some neighborhoods in the Nihonbashi area do not visit the Kanda Myojin Shrine and instead parade their mikoshi only around their local districts.

A neighborhood mikoshi arrives at Kanda Myojin Shrine