---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3996.html
title: Ine Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Ine, a traditional fishing village in northern Kyoto Prefecture, regarded as one of the most beautiful villages in Japan.
keywords: ine, fishing, village, funaya, boat, boats, cruise, cruises, traditional, seafood
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2214
char_count: 14837
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:13:44
---

Ine (伊根) is a town located around the Ine Bay in northern [Kyoto Prefecture](/list/e1226.html), about 15 kilometers north of [Amanohashidate](e3990.html). This working town has a long and rich history as a fishing village and is regarded as one of the most beautiful villages in Japan.

The unique aspect of Ine are its **funaya**. Literally meaning "boat houses", these traditional waterfront buildings contain garages for boats on their first floors and residential space on the upper floors. Today there over 200 funaya remaining along the bay. Some of them now serve as lodgings where visitors can stay the night, but due to their popularity it is often difficult to make reservations (see [external links](#section_links) for a list of lodgings).

Traditional funaya houses

The best way to see Ine and its funaya houses is from the sea. There are two types of **boat tours** available. Large sightseeing boats take passengers on a 25 minute loop around the bay, while smaller sea taxis operated by local fishermen offer a slightly more personalized experience. Advance reservations are not required for either sightseeing boats.

The town itself is a normal town inhabited by working people, and most houses are personal residences. It means that considerate behavior is expected from visiting tourists, but also that there is not an incredible amount to do in the town, because most houses are closed to the public and there are only a few shops and restaurants. The largest concentration of amenities is found at the Michinoeki Funaya no Sato Ine roadside station on a hill above the town with a large parking lot, a tourist information office, an observation deck, restaurants and shops.

A sea taxi making its way around the bay

[Buses](e2015.html) operate between Amanohashidate Station and Ine about once per hour. The one way ride takes one hour and costs 400 yen. The buses can also be boarded at the opposite side of the sandbar at the [Motoise Kono Shrine](e3994.html) or at the lower cable car station to [Kasamatsu Park](e3992.html), from where the one way ride takes only 30 minutes and costs 200 yen.

In Ine, all buses first make a stop at the cruise ship pier (伊根湾めぐり・日出, Inewan Meguri Hide) before serving the Ine bus stop (伊根) in the town center and the Michinoeki Funaya no Sato Ine (道の駅舟屋の里伊根) roadside station. Afterwards, some buses continue further up the Tango Peninsula, while the rest terminate at the Ine Post Office (伊根郵便局前, Ine Yūbinkyoku-mae).

[How to get to and around Amanohashidate](e3991.html)