---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3901.html
title: Kiyomizudera Temple
description: Visitor guide for Kiyomizudera, a famous temple in Kyoto.
keywords: kiyomizudera, temple, kiyomizu, kyoto, japan
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3501
char_count: 24093
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:43:21
---

Kiyomizudera during the cherry blossom season

Kiyomizudera (清水寺, literally "Pure Water Temple") is one of the most celebrated [temples](e2058.html) of Japan. It was founded in 780 on the site of the Otowa Waterfall in the wooded hills east of [Kyoto](e2158.html) and derives its name from the fall's waters. The temple was originally associated with the Hosso sect, one of the oldest schools within [Japanese Buddhism](e2055.html), but formed its own Kita Hosso sect in 1965. In 1994, the temple was added to the list of [World Heritage Sites](e2251.html).

Kiyomizudera is best known for its **wooden stage** that juts out from its main hall, 13 meters above the hillside. The stage affords nice views of the numerous [cherry](e2011.html) and [maple](e2014.html) trees below that erupt in a sea of color in spring and fall, as well as of the city of [Kyoto](e2158.html) in the distance. The main hall, which together with the stage was built without the use of nails, houses the temple's primary object of worship, a small statue of the eleven faced, thousand armed Kannon.

View from the main hall's wooden stage towards the Okunoin Hall and the Otowa Waterfall

Behind Kiyomizudera's main hall stands **Jishu Shrine**, a [shrine](e2059.html) dedicated to the deity of love and matchmaking. In front of the shrine are two stones, placed 18 meters apart. Successfully finding your way from one to the other with your eyes closed is said to bring luck in finding love. You can also have someone guide you from one stone to the other, but that is interpreted to mean that an intermediary will be needed in your love life as well.

The **Otowa Waterfall** is located at the base of Kiyomizudera's main hall. Its waters are divided into three separate streams, and visitors use cups attached to long poles to drink from them. Each stream's water is said to have a different benefit, namely to cause longevity, success at school and a fortunate love life. However, drinking from all three streams is considered greedy.

Otowa Waterfall

Other structures on the spacious [temple](e2058.html) grounds include the **Okunoin Hall**, which resembles the main hall on a smaller scale and has also a stage. Near the Okunoin are halls dedicated to Shaka Buddha (the historical Buddha) and Amida Buddha, as well as a small hall with nearly 200 stone statues of Jizo, the protector of children and travelers. The three-storied **Koyasu Pagoda** stands among the trees in the far southern end of the temple grounds, and a visit is said to bring about an easy and safe childbirth.

Around the entrance of Kiyomizudera, outside the paid area, stand various other temple buildings, including a vermilion three storied pagoda, a repository for sutras, large entrance gates and the Zuigudo Hall which is dedicated to [Buddha](e2055.html)'s mother and where against a small entrance fee you can wander the pitch black basement that symbolizes a mother's womb.

Koyasu Pagoda viewed from the main hall of Kiyomizudera

Part of the fun of visiting Kiyomizudera is **the approach** to the [temple](e2058.html) along the steep and busy lanes of the atmospheric [Higashiyama District](e3959.html). The many shops and restaurants in the area have been catering to tourists and pilgrims for centuries, and products on sale range from local specialties such as [pottery](e2329.html), [sweets](e2312.html) and [pickles](e2349.html) to the standard set of souvenirs.

Kiyomizudera holds special evening **illuminations** during the [cherry blossom](e2011.html) season in late March and early April, during the [autumn leaf](e2014.html) season in the second half of November and during [Obon](e2286.html) in mid August.

Kiyomizudera during fall illuminations

Kiyomizudera can be reached from [Kyoto Station](e3922.html) by [bus](e2015.html) number 206 (15 minutes, 230 yen). Get off at Gojo-zaka or Kiyomizu-michi bus stop, from where it is a ten minute uphill walk to the temple. Alternatively, Kiyomizudera is about a 20 minute walk from Kiyomizu-Gojo Station along the Keihan Railway Line.

[How to get to and around Kyoto](e2363.html)