---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3070.html
title: Edo-Tokyo Museum
description: Visitor guide for the Edo-Tokyo Museum, a museum which informs about the past and present of Tokyo.
keywords: tokyo, edo, museum
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2790
char_count: 19833
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:00:46
---

Construction Notice:

The Edo-Tokyo Museum is closed for renovation from April 2022 until March 30, 2026. It is scheduled to reopen on March 31.

The Edo-Tokyo Museum (江戸東京博物館, Edo Tōkyō Hakubutsukan) is housed in a unique looking building in the [Ryogoku](e3022.html) district. The museum's permanent exhibition vividly illustrates the past of [Tokyo](e2164.html) (known as Edo until 1869) through its exhibits and covers many features of the capital from the [Edo Period](e2128.html) to relatively recent decades.

In an interactive way, visitors are able to experience and learn about various aspects of earlier [Tokyo](e2164.html), such as the way of life of people, [Edo Period](e2128.html) architecture, cultural heritage, political climate, commercial situation and more. Through numerous models of towns, figurines and life-sized figures, the [museum](e3054.html) makes it interesting to find out about how towns were constructed in the past.

The museum also offers many good picture taking opportunities, for example with vehicles and items previously used. Volunteer guides speaking in English and other languages are available.

In addition to the permanent exhibition, special exhibitions are held periodically on varying, Tokyo-related themes. Furthermore, the museum has a sister museum in the western suburbs of Tokyo, the [Edo-Tokyo Open Air Museum](e3032.html), which preserves multiple historic buildings.

One of the many models that vividly illustrate the past

The Edo Tokyo Museum is less than five minutes on foot from [Ryogoku Station](e3022.html).

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)