---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3915.html
title: Fushimi Inari Shrine (Fushimi Inari Taisha)
description: Visitor guide for Fushimi Inari Shrine, a Shinto shrine in Kyoto.
keywords: fushimi, inari, shrine, taisha, shinto, torii, kyoto, japan
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3402
char_count: 23361
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:44:16
---

A walking path leads through a tunnel of torii gates

Fushimi Inari Shrine (伏見稲荷大社, Fushimi Inari Taisha) is an important [Shinto](e2056.html) [shrine](e2059.html) in southern [Kyoto](e2158.html). It is famous for its thousands of vermilion [torii gates](e2059.html), which straddle a network of trails behind its main buildings. The trails lead into the wooded forest of the sacred Mount Inari, which stands at 233 meters and belongs to the shrine grounds.

Fushimi Inari is the most important of several thousands of shrines dedicated to Inari, the [Shinto god](e2056.html) of rice. Foxes are thought to be Inari's messengers, resulting in many fox statues across the shrine grounds. Fushimi Inari Shrine has ancient origins, predating the capital's move to [Kyoto](e2158.html) in 794.

A giant torii gate in front of the Romon Gate at the shrine's entrance

While the primary reason most foreign visitors come to Fushimi Inari Shrine is to explore the mountain trails, the shrine buildings themselves are also attractive. At the shrine's entrance stands the Romon Gate, which was donated in 1589 by the famous leader [Toyotomi Hideyoshi](e2123.html). Behind stands the shrine's **main hall** (honden) where all visitors are encouraged to [pay respect](e2057.html) to the resident deity by making a small offering.

At the very back of the shrine's main grounds is the entrance to the torii gate-covered hiking trail, which starts with two dense, parallel rows of gates called **Senbon Torii** ("thousands of torii gates"). The torii gates along the entire trail are donations by individuals and companies, and you will find the donator's name and the date of the donation inscribed on the back of each gate. The donation amount starts around 400,000 [yen](e2196.html) for a smaller gate and increases to over one million yen for a large gate.

The two dense rows of torii gates of Senbon Torii

The hike to the summit of the mountain and back takes about 2-3 hours, however, visitors are free to walk just as far as they wish before turning back. Along the way, there are multiple smaller shrines with stacks of miniature torii gates that were donated by visitors with smaller budgets. There are also a few restaurants along the way, which offer locally themed dishes such as [Inari Sushi](e2038.html) and [Kitsune Udon](/r/e105.html) ("Fox Udon"), both featuring pieces of [aburaage](e2045_tofu.html) (fried tofu), said to be a favorite food of foxes.

After about a 30-45 minute ascent and a gradual decrease in the density of torii gates, visitors will reach the **Yotsutsuji intersection** roughly half way up the mountain, where some nice views over Kyoto can be enjoyed, and the trail splits into a circular route to the summit. Many hikers only venture as far as here, as the trails do not offer much variation beyond this point and the gate density decreases further.

The view from the Yotsutsuji intersection

Fushimi Inari Shrine is located just outside JR Inari Station, the second station from Kyoto Station along the JR Nara Line (5 minutes, 150 yen one way from [Kyoto Station](e3922.html)). The shrine can also be reached in a short walk from Fushimi Inari Station along the Keihan Main Line.

[How to get to and around Kyoto](e2363.html)