---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3453.html
title: Daisho-in Temple
description: Visitor guide for Daisho-in Temple on Miyajima Island near Hiroshima.
keywords: daisho-in, temple, daishoin, buddhism, miyajima
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1849
char_count: 12796
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:03:29
---

Daisho-in (大聖院, Daishōin) is one of the most important [temples](e2058.html) of [Shingon Buddhism](e2055.html). It is located at the base of [Mount Misen](e3451.html), on which the sect's founder, Kobo Daishi, first began the practice of Buddhism on the island of [Miyajima](e3401.html).

Daisho-in features a variety of buildings, statues and other religious objects for visitors to admire. These include the Kannon-do Hall, the Maniden Hall, a sand mandala made by visiting monks from Tibet, a tea room and a cave filled with 88 icons representing the temples of the [Shikoku](/list/e1107.html) Pilgrimage.

View from Maniden Hall

An interesting [Buddhist](e2055.html) ritual can be performed when walking up the temple's steps. Along the stairs is a row of spinning metal wheels that are inscribed with sutras (Buddhist scriptures). Turning the inscriptions as one walks up is believed to have the same effect as reading them. So, without any knowledge of [Japanese](e621.html) or Sanskrit, you can benefit from the blessings that the reading of the sutras is believed to entail.

From Daisho-in's temple grounds, a [hiking trail](e3456.html) leads to the summit of [Mount Misen](e3451.html), where a few more temple halls are located. The ascent takes about 1.5 to 2 hours.

Spinning wheels of sutra

Daisho-in Temple is a five minute walk from [Itsukushima Shrine](e3450.html) or a 15 minute walk from the ferry pier.

[How to get to and around Miyajima](e3454.html)