---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3938.html
title: Fushimi Sake District
description: Visitor guide for the Fushimi Sake District, a district in southeastern Kyoto famous for its sake breweries.
keywords: fushimi, sake, district, kyoto, gekkeikan, rice, wine, teradaya, japan
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3612
char_count: 25103
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:42:52
---

The Fushimi Sake District (伏見) is a charming, traditional [sake](e2037_sake.html) brewing district along the willow-lined Horikawa River in southern [Kyoto](e2158.html). Revered for the clean, soft water that flows in abundance from the river's underground springs, the district is home to nearly 40 sake breweries. Alongside [Kobe](e2159.html)'s [Nada District](e3556.html), Fushimi has been a leading sake brewing district in the country for many centuries.

Among the local breweries is industry giant Gekkeikan which was founded here in [1637](e2128.html). Many of the district's buildings preserve their traditional appearance with wood and white-plaster walls. A few of the breweries in the area are open to the public and offer shops where you can taste and purchase their products (including some exclusive items not available elsewhere), restaurants and museums.

Gekkeikan Brewery

Fushimi grew during the [Azuchi-Momoyama Period](e2123.html) at the base of Fushimi Castle (on Momoyama Hill after which the period was named), the retirement palace of [Toyotomi Hideyoshi](e2123.html), the contemporary ruler of Japan. It flourished as a [sake](e2037_sake.html) production site thanks to its strategic shipping location at the junction of two rivers, the availability of good water and the high demand for alcoholic beverages by the inhabitants of the castle and its town.

A few hundred years later, in the waning years of the [Edo Period](e2128.html), Fushimi became a venue for the preparations and a battle leading to the [Meiji Restoration](e2130.html). Sakamoto Ryoma, one of the most famous proponents of the restoration, frequented the local [Teradaya Inn](#teradaya) where he barely survived an attack on his life on one occasion. The inn was rebuilt since. It stands near the sake breweries and is open to tourists for daytime viewing and overnight stays.

Sightseeing cruises ply the river

At Fushimi's prime as a shipping port, flat-bottom, wooden boats plied the rivers, moving goods to and from the castle town. Wooden boats can still be seen on the river, although these days they carry **sightseeing cruise** passengers rather than mercantile goods. Cruises depart from docks near the Gekkeikan Brewery and the Teradaya Inn. The cruises both go as far as the junction with the Uji River and take about 50 and 40 minutes respectively.

### Sake-related sites

* 

  Gekkeikan Okura Sake Museum

  Hours: 9:30 to 16:30 (entry until 16:00)  
  Closed: [New Year](e2276.html) and [Obon](e2286.html) holidays  
  Admission: 600 yen

  Gekkeikan is a leading [sake](e2037_sake.html) brewer and one of the oldest family-owned companies in the world, established in Fushimi in the early 1600s. The well-done museum displays the tools and procedures of sake production with good English explanations. A tasting is included at the end of the self-guided tour.
* 

  Kizakura

  Kappa Country: 11:30 to 14:30 and 17:00 to 21:30 (from 11:00 on weekends)  
  A visit to the museum requires [advance reservations](https://kizakura.co.jp/en/husimigura/)

  Kizakura is another large brewery in the area that is worth checking out. They operate a restaurant in the sake district called Kizakura Kappa Country which serves not only their [sake](e2037_sake.html) products but also their [craft beer](e2037_beer.html). A 15 minute walk west of the sake district, on the grounds of the company's actual brewery, there is a museum about both sake and beer brewing, including views into a koji mold room and a beer canning line. There is also another restaurant.
* 

  Fushimi Yumehyakushu

  Hours: 10:30 to 17:00 (until 18:00 weekends and [holidays](e2062.html))  
  Closed: Mondays (except [national holidays](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html) and [Obon](e2286.html)

  The Fushimi Yumehyakushu serves as the local visitor center with information about the district's [sake](e2037_sake.html) breweries, shops and restaurants. It also houses a well-stocked shop selling local products and a quaint cafe where visitors can select from several sake sample sets, sweets, coffee and tea.

### Other attractions

* 

  Otesujidori Shopping Arcade

  Hours: Varies by shop (typically 10:00 to 19:00)  
  Closed: Varies by shop (typically open every day)

  The Otesujidori Shopping Arcade is a four block long, covered shopping street to the west of Momoyama Goryomae Station. The shopping arcade has a typical assortment of local shops and restaurants, including a few places that sell local [sake](e2037_sake.html).

The sites around the Fushimi Sake District are within a 5-10 minute walk from Chushojima Station (15 minutes, 280 yen from Kyoto's Sanjo Station) or Fushimi-Momoyama Station (15-20 minutes, 320 yen from Sanjo Station) on the Keihan Main Line or from Momoyama Goryomae Station (10-15 minutes, 300 yen from Kyoto Station) on the Kintetsu Kyoto Line. Alternatively, they are a 15-20 minute walk from Momoyama Station (12 minutes, 200 yen from Kyoto Station) on the JR Nara Line.

[How to get to and around Kyoto](e2363.html)