---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3981.html
title: Mimurotoji Temple
description: Visitor guide for Mimurotoji, a temple in Uji which is known for the flowers at its temple grounds
keywords: mimurotoji, temple, uji, kyoto, japan, flower, flowers
content_type: attraction
word_count: 428
char_count: 2906
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:06:56
---

Mimurotoji (三室戸寺) is a [temple](e2058.html) in the northern hills of [Uji City](e3975.html), founded about 1200 years ago. It is also known as the "flower temple", as its wide temple grounds offer large gardens of some varieties of seasonal [flowers](e2423.html). Visitors can view [cherry blossoms](e2011.html) here around early April, azalea around early May, [hydrangea](e2423_ajisai.html) in June, lotuses around July and August, and [autumn colors](e2014.html) around late November.

The present main hall of Mimurotoji was built in the early 1800s and houses the [temple](e2058.html)'s principle image of the thousand-armed Kannon Bodhisattva. In front of the main hall are statues of an ox and a rabbit. Touching the stone ball in the ox's mouth is believed to lead to victories in your endeavors. You can also make a wish and reach your hands into the stone sphere in front of the rabbit; it is said that your wish would be granted if the egg-shaped object in the sphere is standing.

Within the [temple](e2058.html) precincts are a beautiful, three tiered vermilion pagoda, an [Amida Buddha](e2055.html) hall, and a statue of Ugajin, a local deity with the head of an old man and the body of a snake. Patting on the statue of Ugajin is supposed to bring fortune and good luck.

Three tiered pagoda and autumn colors

[Bus](e2015.html) number 40 runs every 1-2 hours between JR Uji Station, Keihan Uji Station and Mon-no-mae (門前) bus stop, which is a five minute walk from the temple. The one way ride to the temple costs 230 yen and takes eight minutes from JR Uji Station or three minutes from Keihan Uji Station. Alternatively, it takes about 15 minutes to walk to the temple from Keihan Mimuroto Station or about 20 minutes from Keihan Uji Station or the [Uji Bridge](e3980.html).

[How to get to and around Uji](e3976.html)