---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3985.html
title: Miyama Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Miyama, a rural town in Kyoto Prefecture with Japan's highest concentration of traditional thatched roofed farmhouses.
keywords: miyama, kyoto, travel, guide, tourism, tourist, visitor, information, rural, traditional, farm, houses, farmhouses, thatch, thatched, roof, roofs, kayabuki
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1249
char_count: 8128
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:48:56
---

Miyama (美山) is a remote, rural area in the mountains 30 kilometers north of central [Kyoto](e2158.html). The area is famous for its traditional, thatched roof (kayabuki) farmhouses of which over 200 can be seen dotting the countryside. Unlike those found in many other [historic towns and districts](e2422.html) around the country, the majority of Miyama's old houses survive as residential dwellings where people still live and work. This in turn lends a very nostalgic atmosphere to the area, and gives visitors a chance to experience the traditional, authentic feel of rural Japan.

Miyama is made up of multiple small villages and hamlets scattered along its narrow, winding valleys. The main attraction among them is the northern village or **Kayabuki no Sato**, which features nearly 40 farmhouses with thatched roofs and has a higher percentage of thatched roof houses than any other place in Japan. Visitors can stroll around the village, but here too, most houses are private homes that cannot be entered.

One of the buildings open to the public is the Kayabuki no Sato Folk Museum. The former residence exhibits traditional tools and daily household items from past decades, as well as a few displays about the construction and maintenance of the thatched roofs. Not far from the folk museum stands the Little Indigo Museum, another thatched roof building which has been converted into an indigo dyeing studio and gallery. Apart from these two museums, the only tourist facilities in the village are three [minshuku](e2026.html) and a cafe. Furthermore, there are a few souvenir shops at the tourist parking lot across the street from the village.

Kayabuki no Sato Folk Museum

One of the best ways to appreciate Miyama's thatched roof houses is to **overnight** in one of them. Three of the farmhouses in Kayabuki no Sato, along with several more in other villages of Miyama, also serve as lodgings. An overnight stay affords visitors a more intimate look at the houses as well as the chance to experience a traditional Japanese-style home as many still feature [tatami](e2007.html) floors, [futon](e2007.html) beds and open hearths (irori).

The old wooden homes convey a pleasant, rustic atmosphere, yet at the same time they are typically equipped with simple, modern amenities. Baths and toilets are also usually modern but shared among the staying guests. An overnight stay typically starts from around 15,000 yen per person, depending on meals which usually feature local dishes such as sweetfish (ayu) caught locally in the Yura River.

The open hearth of Miyama Futon and Breakfast, one of Miyama's lodgings

Miyama is also known for its wealth of outdoor activities, including sweetfish fishing and hiking along the Yura River. A walking trail leads along the river for about two kilometers from the Kayabuki no Sato to the **Shizen Bunkamura Kajikaso**, a nature center and accommodation.

For more serious hiking, check out the **Ashiu Forest** that covers the mountainous eastern border of Miyama and is the source of the Yura River. This magnificent old-growth forest is populated by deer, bears and monkeys, and boasts the largest number of plant varieties in Japan. The forest is managed by Kyoto University as a research area and requires a permit to enter. Permits can be obtained from the research station at the entrance gate. While it is possible to visit on your own, it is easiest to access and explore Ashiu Forest by joining guided tours. Reservations can be made at Shizen Bunkamura Kajikaso.

Hiking in the Ashiu Forest

Although Miyama is located only about 30 kilometers north of central [Kyoto](e2158.html), access is time-consuming. It is most easily visited as a side trip from Kyoto or along the way between Kyoto and [Amanohashidate](e3990.html) or [Kinosaki Onsen](e3525.html):

### How to travel between Miyama and Kyoto

#### By train and bus via Hiyoshi Station

Take a [local](e2016.html) or [rapid](e2016.html) train along the JR Sagano Line (Sanin Line) from Kyoto to Hiyoshi Station (about 45 minutes, 770 yen, fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html)). Most trains require a transfer at Sonobe along the way. From Hiyoshi take a Nantan Bus into Miyama (50 minutes, 600 yen one way to Kita). There is generally one connection per hour, making it the easiest way to access Miyama by public transportation.

#### By bus via Takao through the mountains

From Kyoto Station, take the JR bus in direction of [Takao](e3940.html) and get off at Shuzan (90 minutes, 1080 yen, fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html)), the terminal stop on the line (note that not all buses operate all the way to Shuzan). From there, very infrequent Nantan Buses operate into Miyama (30 minutes, 600 yen one way).

#### By car

[Rental cars](e2024.html) are a convenient alternative for accessing and exploring the area. Many rental outlets can be found in [Kyoto](e2158.html); however, to avoid the often unpleasant traffic in central Kyoto you may want to consider renting from an outlet north of the city center or from Kameoka. There are two main routes to reach Miyama from Kyoto:

* **By expressway via Sonobe**
    
  Take the Kyoto Jukan [Expressway](e2354.html) that runs through the mountains west of central Kyoto and get off at the Sonobe Interchange (note that an [ETC card](e2354.html) is required to exit/enter the expressway at Sonobe). From there head northeast along route 19 into Miyama. The entire journey from Kyoto to the Kayabuki no Sato takes about 90 minutes and costs about 1000 yen in expressway tolls. The trip can also be made entirely on toll-free roads, but will probably take about 15-30 minutes longer.
* **Through the mountains via Takao**
    
  National Route 162 connects central Kyoto with Miyama via [Takao](e3940.html). The one way trip takes about 90 minutes. During periods of heavy congestion, especially during the [autumn color season](e2014.html) in mid and late November, the journey can take considerably longer.

### How to get around Miyama

Miyama is covered by a fairly comprehensive [bus](e2015.html) network. Buses operate roughly hourly along the main route that connects Hiyoshi Station with the town center and Kayabuki no Sato. Service on most other lines, however, is much less frequent. Bus fares depend on the distance traveled. Alternatively, a 1-day bus pass for 1200 yen and a 2-day pass for 1500 yen provide unlimited rides on Nantan buses (not including the JR bus).

Miyama is also well suited to be explored by [rental bicycle](e2210.html). Electric bicycles can be rented from the Miyama Visitor Center at Agake and the Shizen Bunkamura Kajikaso. They cost 2000 yen for up to 4 hours or 3000 yen for a full day and are not available on Wednesdays and from December to late March. Some accommodations also offer rental bicycles.

The easiest way to get around Miyama is by [rental car](e2024.html). There are no rental outlets near Miyama itself, but plenty of them around central [Kyoto](e2158.html), Kameoka, Fukuchiyama and Maizuru.