---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3253.html
title: Nihon Minkaen Open Air Museum
description: Visitor guide for the Nihon Minkaen open air museum in Kawasaki City.
keywords: nihon, minkaen, open, air, open-air, traditional, house, houses, farm, farms, museum, kawasaki
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1801
char_count: 11979
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:31:07
---

The Nihon Minkaen (日本民家園) is an [open-air museum](e2421.html) in the suburbs of [Kawasaki City](e3250.html). The museum is home to 25 preserved buildings from the [Edo Period (1603-1868)](e2128.html) which were relocated to Kawasaki from all over Japan. They include traditional farmhouses, such as a gasshozukuri farmhouse from the [Shirakawago](e5950.html) area, [samurai](e2127.html) houses, merchant houses, houses from post towns, homes from fishing villages, a shrine and a [kabuki](e2090.html) stage.

Some of the homes house workshops where demonstrations of traditional handicrafts such as indigo dyeing, straw and bamboo craft making, and cloth weaving are held on Sundays. There are also daily indigo dyeing workshops where, for a small fee, you can dye your own handkerchief, bandana, or traditional shop curtain. A variety of other cultural events and festivals, such as rice cake pounding, folk storytelling, traditional carpentry demonstrations, and lion dances are held occasionally during the year.

The Nihon Minkaen also has a small folk museum with a healthy collection of tools and folk instruments from the feudal era. A [soba](e2341.html) restaurant can also be found in one of the farmhouses.

The Nihon Minkaen is a 15 minute walk from Mukogaoka Yuen Station on the Odakyu Odawara Line (20 minutes, 270 yen by express train from [Shinjuku](e3011.html), frequent departures) or a 25 minute walk from Noborito Station on the JR Nambu Line (30 minutes, 320 yen from Kawasaki Station, frequent departures). It is also a 25 minute walk from the [Fujiko F. Fujio Museum](e3252.html).

[How to get to and around Kawasaki](e3251.html)