---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3313.html
title: Nagashima Resort
description: Visitor guide for Nagashima Resort and Nagashima Spaland, an amusement park outside of Nagoya.
keywords: nagashima, resort, nagoya, spaland, nabana, sato
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2353
char_count: 15417
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:56:32
---

Nagashima Resort is a major vacation destination just outside [Nagoya](e2155.html). It is comprised of five main leisure facilities: the Nagashima Spaland [amusement park](e2067.html), a water park, a [hot spring](e2292.html) complex, an [outlet shopping mall](e2451.html) and a [flower](e2423.html) park named Nabana no Sato. The resort is located on a long piece of land that is surrounded by rivers and the sea; fittingly, it is called Nagashima or "long island".

**Nagashima Spaland**, reputed to be the best [amusement park](e2067.html) for roller coasters in western Japan, is the main attraction of the resort. The park is filled with over forty rides, ranging from gentle ones suitable for children to outrageous ones for those looking to spend some exhilarating moments. Immediately noticeable even before entering the main gate is the Steel Dragon 2000, a gigantic roller coaster ride which spans the entire length of the park.

Nagashima Spaland

Also within the Nagashima Spaland grounds is a full-featured water park, named Joyful Waterpark. The water park is densely packed with water slides and swimming pools, including a wave pool, but is open only in the summer.

At the southwestern corner of the resort lies **Nagashima Spa Yuami no Shima**, a [hot spring](e2292.html) bath complex which offers many attractive indoor and outdoor baths set in man-made nature. The baths are divided into two sections for each gender with beautifully recreated scenery from the [Kurobe Gorge](e7575.html) (usually designated as the men's bath) and [Oirase Stream](e3775.html) (usually the women's bath). Also available are jacuzzis, saunas, massage services and restaurants.

Nagashima Spa Yuami no Shima

Next to the main entrance to the amusement park is the **Anpanman Museum**, based on the popular [animation](e2070.html) and catering to younger kids.

**Mitsui Outlet Park Jazz Dream Nagashima** is a large [outlet mall](e2451.html) located just beside Nagashima Spaland. It offers over 300 stores, including famous foreign and domestic boutiques, stores carrying world-renowned brand names, popular sporting goods, and a plethora of other shopping options.

Located at a distance apart from the other attractions (about 15 minutes by bus from Nagashima Spaland) is the **Nabana no Sato** flower park. The park hosts one of the largest [flower](e2423.html) festivals in Japan during the warmer seasons. Equally outstanding are the park's [winter illuminations](e2304.html) from October to May. Of interest is Island Fuji, a unique, moving observation deck, which offers good views over the park.

Winter illuminations at Nabana no Sato

### From Nagoya

From the Meitetsu Bus Center next to Nagoya Station, take a [bus](e2015.html) bound for Nagashima Onsen and get off at either Nabana no Sato (1000 yen, 35 minutes) or Nagashima Onsen (1200 yen, 50 minutes). Buses depart about once per hour. The one way trip between Nabana no Sato and Nagashima Onsen costs 500 yen and takes about 15 minutes.

Alternatively, buses depart once per hour in the morning from the [Sakae](e3304.html) Bus Terminal in central Nagoya to Nagashima Onsen (1200 yen, 55 minutes). In the afternoon, they operate in the opposite direction. These buses do not serve Nabana no Sato.

### From Kuwana (or Nagashima) Station

Kuwana Station and Nagashima Spaland are connected by 3-4 buses per hour (600 yen, 20 minutes). A different bus connects the station with Nabana no Sato (300 yen, 10 minutes, hourly). During the winter illuminations from mid/late October to around the end of May (October 18, 2025 to May 31, 2026), the bus to Nabana no Sato departs from Nagashima Station instead of Kuwana Station (230 yen, 10 minutes, every 20-60 minutes).

[How to get to and around Nagoya](e3302.html)