---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3557.html
title: Mount Rokko
description: Visitor guide to Mount Rokko in Kobe, Japan.
keywords: rokko, mountain, mountains, mount, kobe
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2271
char_count: 14873
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:53:00
---

Mount Rokko (六甲山, Rokkōsan, 931 meters) is the highest peak in the Rokko mountain range, which provides the pleasant green backdrop to the city of [Kobe](e2159.html). Panoramic views of the heavily urbanized Hanshin region ([Kobe](e2159.html) and [Osaka](e2157.html)) can be enjoyed from the mountain and are particularly spectacular around sunset.

Various small tourist attractions can be found on Mount Rokko, including a botanical garden, a music box museum, a pasture with flowers and sheep, Japan's first [golf](e2082.html) course and Rokko Garden Terrace, a tourist complex with a few restaurants, shops and an observation deck.

A circular [bus](e2015.html) line (running in clockwise direction only) connects the various attractions with the top stations of both the Rokko Cablecar (going to central [Kobe](e2159.html)) and the Rokko Arima Ropeway (going to [Arima Onsen](e3558.html)).

Rokko Garden Terrace

### From central Kobe

From Sannomiya Station, take the Hankyu Kobe Line to Rokko Station (7 minutes, 200 yen), from where it is a ten minute bus ride on bus number 16 to the base station of the Rokko Cablecar. Note that the same bus can also be boarded at JR Rokkomichi Station (15 minutes) or Hanshin Mikage Station (25 minutes) and costs 230 yen from any of the three stations. The cablecar ride up the mountain takes 10 minutes and costs 800 yen one way or 1550 yen for a round trip ticket.

### From Arima Onsen

The Rokko Arima Ropeway connects [Arima Onsen](e3558.html) with the top of Mount Rokko. The one way trip takes 12 minutes and costs 1400 yen. A round trip ticket costs 2520 yen.

[How to get to and around Kobe](e3554.html)