---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3301.html
title: Atsuta Shrine
description: Visitor guide for Atsuta Shrine, the Shinto shrine that stores the sacred Kusanagi sword, one of three Imperial Regalia of Japan.
keywords: atsuta, shrine, sword, kusanagi, nagoya, japan
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2060
char_count: 13442
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:56:27
---

Atsuta Shrine (熱田神宮, Atsuta Jingū) is one of [Shinto](e2056.html)'s most important [shrines](e2059.html). It enshrines the [Sun Goddess Amaterasu](e2056.html) and stores the sacred sword Kusanagi, which is one of the three [imperial regalia](e2140.html). Note, however, that the sword is never displayed to the public.

Atsuta Shrine stands in a pleasant, wooded park in southern [Nagoya](e2155.html). During the [Meiji Period](e2130.html), the shrine's buildings was remodeled after the [Ise Shrines](e4300.html) in the purely Japanese Shinmei-zukuri [architecture](e2111.html) style.

Visitors can learn more about the shrine's relation to swords at the **Kusanagi-kan**, a museum that was newly opened in 2021. The interestingly designed museum hall exhibits over a dozen historical swords of various sizes out of the shrine's large collection and also let's visitors lift some sample swords in a hands-on corner.

In addition to the Kusanagi-kan and not far from it, there is also a more old-fashioned treasure house with more swords and other shrine-related documents and objects on display.

A pleasant thing to round off the visit is to try the shrine's version of kishimen noodles, one of [Nagoya](e2155.html)'s [local specialties](e3315.html). A restaurant serving the noodle soup dish is found next to the Kusanagi-kan.

Inside the Kusanagi-kan

### By Meitetsu Railway

Take the Meitetsu Nagoya Line from Nagoya Station to Jingumae Station (5 minutes, 250 yen), from where the shrine can be reached in a three minute walk.

### By subway

Atsuta Jingu Nishi Station on the Subway Meijo Line is a five minute walk from the shrine.

### By Japan Railways (JR)

Take the JR Tokaido Line from Nagoya Station to Atsuta Station (6 minutes, 200 yen), from where it is a ten minute walk to the shrine.

[How to get to and around Nagoya](e3302.html)