---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3043.html
title: Akasaka Sacas
description: Visitor guide for Akasaka Sacas, a city within the city in Tokyo around the TBS headquarters.
keywords: akasaka, sacas, tokyo, TBS, television
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2811
char_count: 19924
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:56:53
---

Opened in 2008, Akasaka Sacas (赤坂サカス) is a [city within a city](e3027.html) in [Tokyo](e2164.html). After the success of Fuji Television at [Odaiba](e3008.html), Nippon Television at [Shiodome](e3030.html) and TV Asahi at [Roppongi Hills](e3031.html), TBS (Tokyo Broadcasting System) also tried their hand at integrating their headquarters into the "city within a city" format.

Sacas is made up of several buildings, including the TBS headquarters, a high rise residence, a 39-story office building, called Biz Tower, and the ACT Theater which presents Broadway-type spectacles, often of international renown.

Most of Sacas' shopping and dining facilities are located in the first few floors of the Biz Tower. There are fewer options available when compared to the other [cities within a city](e3027.html), but nonetheless, there is still a considerable variety of quality international food to be found. For fans of Japanese television, interesting souvenirs are sold at the TBS shop.

Akasaka Sacas is directly connected to Akasaka Station along the Chiyoda Subway Line.

### From Tokyo Station

Take the Marunouchi Subway Line to Kokkaigijido-mae Station (7 minutes) and transfer to the Chiyoda Subway Line for Akasaka (2 minutes). The one way fare is 180 yen.

### From Shinjuku Station

Take the Marunouchi Subway Line to Kokkaigijido-mae Station (12 minutes) and transfer to the Chiyoda Subway Line for Akasaka (2 minutes). The one way fare is 180 yen.