---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3022.html
title: Ryogoku Sumo Town
description: Visitor guide for Ryogoku, a district in Tokyo and the center of the sumo world.
keywords: ryogoku, kokugikan, sumo, tokyo, japan
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3367
char_count: 23918
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:01:28
---

Kokugikan Sumo Stadium, Edo-Tokyo Museum and JR Ryogoku Station

Ryogoku (両国, Ryōgoku) is the center of the [sumo](e2080.html) world. It is a district in [Tokyo](e2164.html) where the sumo stadium, many sumo stables, chanko [restaurants](e2036.html) and other sumo-related attractions can be found. Sumo events have been staged in this area for a long time.

Until the beginning of the 20th century, tournaments were held outdoors at [shrines](e2059.html) and [temples](e2058.html). In 1909, the first permanent sumo hall was built in the Ryogoku area. Today's sumo stadium, the current **Kokugikan**, is the fourth built in [Tokyo](e2164.html) and has been in use since 1985. It seats over 10,000 visitors and hosts three of the six annual [sumo](e2080.html) tournaments (in January, May and September).

Kokugikan Sumo Stadium

**Sumo stables** are the places where [sumo](e2080.html) wrestlers live and train. Among the several dozens of sumo stables currently in existence, many are located in the Ryogoku area. At some stables, it is possible to view the [sumo practice](e2080.html) in the early mornings. Most require advance applications by phone and some request that guests are accompanied by a Japanese speaker.

**Chanko nabe** is the staple food of sumo wrestlers. It is a [hot pot dish](e2035.html) that comes in many varieties and contains [vegetables](e2346.html), seafood and meat. There are several [restaurants](e2036.html) in the Ryogoku area that feature chanko nabe on their menus. Many of the restaurants are managed by retired wrestlers.

Chanko nabe served at a restaurant which features a dohyo (sumo ring)

Other places of interest in the Ryogoku district are located within walking distance of Ryogoku Station and the sumo stadium, including the excellent [Edo-Tokyo Museum](e3070.html) on Tokyo's history and culture, the [Sumida Hokusai Museum](e3054_hokusai.html), one of Japan's best [ukiyo-e](e2291.html) museums, and Yokoamicho Park which commemorates the two most destructive events in Tokyo during the 20th century: the [Great Kanto Earthquake of 1923](/a/earthquake/) and the fire bombings of World War 2.

* 

  Kokugikan Sumo Stadium

  Museum hours: 12:30 to 16:00 (entry until 15:30)  
  Museum closed: weekends, [national holidays](e2062.html) and between exhibitions  
  Museum admission: Free

  The Kokugikan seats over 10,000 visitors and hosts three of the six annual [sumo](e2080.html) tournaments (in January, May and September). On non-tournament days, a small sumo museum and a shop selling various sumo goods are open to visitors. During tournaments, they are only accessible to ticket holders.
* 

  [Edo-Tokyo Museum](e3070.html)

  Closed for renovations until 2025

  Through numerous models of towns, figurines, life-sized figures and many other exhibits, this outstanding museum vividly illustrates the past of [Tokyo](e2164.html).
* 

  [Sumida Hokusai Museum](e3054_hokusai.html)

  Hours: 9:30 to 17:30 (entry until 17:00)  
  Closed: Mondays (or following day if Monday is a [holiday](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission: 400 yen (permanent exhibition)

  Opened in 2016 in [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s Sumida City Ward, the birth place of Katsushika Hokusai, the well-done, fully bilingual [Sumida Hokusai Museum](e3054_hokusai.html) features a permanent exhibition room with Hokusai's works through his life and interesting general information about [ukiyo-e](e2291.html), as well as exhibition space for rotating, temporary exhibitions related to the great painter which cost a separate admission fee.
* 

  The Japanese Sword Museum

  Hours: 9:30 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Mon (or next day if Mon is a [holiday](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html), between exhibitions  
  Admission: 1000 yen

  The Japanese Sword Museum exhibits a large number of sword blades and related items, including historic and modern items. Exhibitions are changed multiple times per year. Formerly located in [Shinjuku](e3011.html), the museum was moved and reopened in a modern building adjacent to Kyu-Yasuda Garden (see below) in 2018.
* 

  Kyu-Yasuda Garden

  Hours: 9:00 to 19:30 (until 18:00 from October to March)  
  Closed: December 29 to January 1  
  Admission: Free

  The Kyu-Yasuda Teien is a [garden](e2099.html) with a pond in the shape of the Japanese [kanji](e2046.html) "kokoro", meaning "heart". The garden was remodeled by entrepreneur Yasuda Zenjiro in the late 1800s and is known as a garden representative of a [Meiji Period](e2130.html)-style garden, many of which were built by prominent industrialists and politicians.
* 

  Tokyo Memorial Hall

  Hours: 9:00 to 16:30  
  Closed: Dec 29 to Jan 1  
  Admission: Free

  Located in Yokoamicho Park, the memorial hall serves to remember the victims of the Tokyo air raids during World War 2. Peace is advocated, and prayers for the victims can be made. Next to the hall stands a memorial monument for the Korean victims, as well as a peace monument.
* 

  Great Kanto Earthquake Memorial Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Mondays (or next day if Monday is a [holiday](e2062.html)), Dec 29 to Jan 3  
  Admission: Free

  Also located in Yokoamicho Park, this museum displays remains of the [Great Kanto Earthquake](/a/earthquake/) of 1923, as well as items which demonstrate the aid rendered by foreign countries to help Tokyo in the aftermath of the disaster.
* 

  Ryogoku Edo Noren

  Restaurants: typically 11:00 to 22:00  
  Information desk: 10:00 to 18:00

  Located in the Ryogoku Station Building, the Ryogoku Edo Noren is a pleasant collection of small restaurants that offer [Tokyo-specialty foods](e3075.html), such as sushi, chanko nabe and soba. A tourist information desk and a replica sumo ring can also be found in the complex.

Take the [JR Sobu Line](e2372.html) or Oedo Subway Line to Ryogoku Station.

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)