---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3935.html
title: Kyoto Sento Imperial Palace
description: Visitor guide for Kyoto Sento Imperial Palace (Kyoto Sento Gosho).
keywords: sento, imperial, palace, garden, kyoto, japan
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3238
char_count: 22510
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:43:42
---

Entrance to Omiya Palace

Kyoto Sento Imperial Palace (京都仙洞御所, Kyōto Sentō Gosho) is a secondary palace across from the [Kyoto Imperial Palace](e3917.html) in [Kyoto Imperial Park](e3917.html). It was built in 1630 as the retirement palace of Emperor Gomizuno and became the palace for subsequent retired [emperors](e2135.html).

The original palace buildings burned down in 1854 and were not rebuilt. Instead, Omiya Palace was constructed on the Sento grounds in 1867 and now serves as the lodging place for the emperor during his visits to [Kyoto](e2158.html).

The palace garden's South Pond

Visiting Kyoto Sento Imperial Palace requires joining a free tour by the Imperial Household Agency. The tour leads through the palace garden, which is comprised of the North Pond and South Pond areas, and is a beautiful example of a [strolling garden](e2099_types.html).

Tours of Kyoto Sento Palace last about one hour and are conducted in [Japanese](e621.html) only. Audio guides in several foreign languages are available. None of the palace buildings are entered, however, some of the structures, such as the Seikatei teahouse, are left open so that visitors can see inside and get an impression of imperial design and style.

A tour group is led through the palace garden

Kyoto Sento Imperial Palace is located within the [Kyoto Imperial Park](e3917.html). It can be reached from [Kyoto Station](e3922.html) in about 10 minutes by the Karasuma Subway Line. Get off at Marutamachi or Imadegawa Station. Both stations are about a 15 minute walk from the palace's entrance gate.

[How to get to and around Kyoto](e2363.html)