---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3002.html
title: Meiji Shrine (Meiji Jingu)
description: Visitor guide for Meiji Shrine in Tokyo.
keywords: meiji, shrine, jingu, meijijingu, tokyo, japan
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3090
char_count: 21606
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:56:55
---

Meiji Shrine (明治神宮, Meiji Jingū) is a [shrine](e2059.html) dedicated to the deified spirits of [Emperor Meiji](e2130.html) and his consort, Empress Shoken. Located just beside the [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html)'s busy [Harajuku](e3006.html) Station, Meiji Shrine and the adjacent [Yoyogi Park](e3034_002.html) make up a large forested area within the densely built-up city and offer walking paths for a relaxing stroll away from the concrete.

The shrine was completed and dedicated to the Emperor Meiji and the Empress Shoken in 1920, eight years after the passing of the emperor and six years after the passing of the empress. The shrine was destroyed during the [war](e2129.html) but was rebuilt shortly thereafter.

Emperor Meiji was the first [emperor](e2135.html) of modern Japan. He was born in 1852 and ascended to the throne in 1867 at the peak of the [Meiji Restoration](e2130.html) when Japan's [feudal era](e2128.html) came to an end and the emperor was restored to power. During the [Meiji Period](e2130.html), Japan modernized herself to join the world's major powers by the time Emperor Meiji passed away in 1912.

A torii gate along the forested approach to Meiji Shrine

The **main complex of shrine buildings** is located a ten minute walk from both the southern entrance near Harajuku Station and the northern entrance near Yoyogi Station. Entry into the shrine grounds is marked by a massive [torii gate](e2059.html), after which the sights and sounds of the busy city are replaced by a tranquil forest. The approximately 100,000 trees that make up Meiji Jingu's forest were planted during the shrine's construction and were donated from regions across the entire country.

At the middle of the forest, Meiji Jingu's buildings also have an air of tranquility distinct from the surrounding city. Visitors can take part in typical [Shinto](e2056.html) activities, such as making offerings at the main hall, buying charms and amulets or writing out one's wish on an [ema](e2059.html).

Meiji Jingu is one of Japan's most popular shrines. In the first days of the [New Year](e2064.html), the shrine regularly welcomes more than three million visitors for the year's first prayers (hatsumode), more than any other [shrine](e2059.html) or [temple](e2058.html) in the country. During the rest of the year, traditional Shinto weddings can often be seen taking place there.

Not far from the Harajuku shrine entrance along the approach to the shrine buildings stands the **Meiji Jingu Museum**, which was newly opened in 2019. Elegantly designed by star [architect](e2111_architects.html) Kuma Kengo, the museum displays treasures from the shrine's collection, including interesting personal belongings of the emperor and empress and the carriage which the emperor rode to the formal declaration of the Meiji Constitution in 1889.

A large area of the southern section of the shrine grounds is taken up by the **Inner Garden**, which requires an entrance fee to enter. The garden becomes particularly popular in mid June when many irises are in bloom. A small well, Kiyomasa's Well, is located in the garden and named after the military commander who dug it around 400 years ago. The well had been visited by the emperor and has become a popular spiritual "power spot".

Meiji Jingu Museum

The approach to Meiji Shrine starts a few steps from Harajuku Station on the [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html) or Meiji-jingu-mae Station on the Chiyoda and Fukutoshin subway lines.

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)