---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3563.html
title: Kobe Nunobiki Ropeway and Nunobiki Waterfall
description: Visitor guide for the Kobe Nunobiki Ropeway, formerly known as Shin-Kobe Ropeway, which provides excellent views of Kobe City and the nearby Nunobiki Waterfall.
keywords: kobe, nunobiki, shin-kobe, ropeway, herb, park, garden, waterfall, fall, falls, taki
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2446
char_count: 15976
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:53:13
---

Night view from the top station of the Kobe Nunobiki Ropeway

Kobe Nunobiki Ropeway (神戸布引ロープウェイ) is one of three services that lifts tourists up the southern slopes of the [Rokko mountain chain](e3557.html). The ropeway departs from next to Shin-Kobe Station, Kobe's [shinkansen](e2018.html) station. As it ascends, it passes by the Nunobiki Waterfall and the Kobe Nunobiki Herb Gardens, giving a nice aerial view of both. The highlight of the ride lies in the observation deck located just beside the top station, which offers spectacular views of [Kobe](e2159.html) and is a popular night view spot.

An alternative way to get to the top station is via a hiking trail from Shin-Kobe Station. It is somewhat surprising that only a few steps north of the station are forests shielded from the rumbles of the city. A 15-20 minute climb through the woods takes you to the 43 meter tall **Nunobiki Waterfall**, whose name comes from its draped cloth-like appearance. Five minutes east from here is the Miharashi Observatory, which offers decent views of the city.

A further 20 minute scale up the mountain takes you to the middle station of Kobe Nunobiki Ropeway and the lower entrance of **Kobe Nunobiki Herb Gardens**, one of Japan's largest herb gardens with hundreds of herb species and seasonal [flowers](e2423.html). A glasshouse in the garden makes growing flowers and [fruits](e2347.html) such as guavas and papayas possible throughout the year.

Nunobiki Waterfall

At the upper entrance of the garden is the top station of Kobe Nunobiki Ropeway. Here, in addition to the observation deck, is a rest house with a cafe, [restaurant](e2036.html) and souvenir shop which sells many herbal and aromatic products. There is also a "Rose Symphony Garden", where visitors can enjoy viewing different varieties of roses during their blooming seasons while listening to music.

For hikers who would rather skip the garden, the top station and observation deck can be hiked to following a 30 minute trail that bypasses the garden on its east. After reaching the ropeway's top station, the same trail continues on to Mount Maya, one of the peaks of the [Rokko mountain chain](e3557.html).

The ropeway climbs the mountain with the city behind it

It takes five minutes to walk from Shin-Kobe Station to the lower station of Kobe Nunobiki Ropeway.

To access the hiking trail to the waterfall, leave Shin-Kobe Station through the exit on the first floor to the south (the ticket gates are located on the second floor), where you will find a tunnel that leads below the station building northwards to the forested mountain.

[How to get to and around Kobe](e3554.html)