---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3805.html
title: How to get to and around Nikko\: Access, Orientation and Transportation
description: Access, orientation and transportation in Nikko.
keywords: nikko, access, orientation, transportation, directions, get there, tobu, train, shinkansen, bus
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2283
char_count: 15464
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:01:48
---

[Nikko](e3800.html) is located about 125 kilometers north of [Tokyo](e2164.html) and makes a good one or two day trip from Tokyo. Nikko is connected with Tokyo by Tobu Railway and Japan Railways (JR):

The Tobu terminal station in Tokyo for trains to [Nikko](e3800.html) is Tobu Asakusa Station, which can be accessed by subway (Ginza and Asakusa subway lines). Travelers have the option between the fast and expensive [limited express](e2016.html#category) trains and slower but cheaper express and local trains.

There are 1-2 [limited express](e2016.html#category) trains per hour between [Asakusa](e3004.html) and Tobu-Nikko Station, which take about two hours and cost 2850-3540 yen one way, depending on the train set and travel date. Some connections require a transfer at Shimo-Imaichi Station. By express and local trains, the one way journey costs only 1400 yen, but takes at least half an hour longer and requires 1-3 transfers of trains along the way.

Tobu is offering various [passes](e2358_002.html), which include the round trip from Tokyo to Nikko and unlimited use of buses in the Nikko area. Note that the passes do not cover the supplement fee required on limited express trains (1450-2140 yen one way). The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and other JR passes are not valid on these Tobu trains.

A very small number of direct [limited express](e2016.html#category) trains, cooperated by Japan Railways (JR) and Tobu Railway, connect JR [Shinjuku](e3011.html) Station with Tobu Nikko Station. The one way journey takes two hours and costs 4090 yen. All seats are reserved.

Because the trains between Shinjuku and Nikko [partially use the tracks](e2368.html) of Tobu Railway, the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) does not fully cover the expenses of the journey. However, thanks to a special agreement, the [JR Tokyo Wide Pass](e2361_06.html), [JR East Nagano Niigata Area Pass](e2361_nagano_niigata.html), [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html) and [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html) do cover the entire trip.

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

Take the [JR Tohoku Shinkansen](e2018_tohoku.html) (from Tokyo or Ueno Station) to [Utsunomiya](e3860.html) Station and transfer to the JR Nikko Line. With a good connection at Utsunomiya, the one way trip takes about 100 minutes. Due to its relatively high cost (about 5000-5500 yen one way), this option is attractive to holders of a [JR pass](e2357.html).

On weekends and [national holidays](e2062.html) from early June to late October (June 1 to October 26, 2025), there are infrequent [bus](e2015.html) connections between [Nikko](e3800.html) and [Oze](e7440.html), allowing tourists to combine the two destinations or enter/leave Nikko through the backdoor via [Gunma Prefecture](/list/e1209.html). Buses operate between [Yumoto Onsen](e3807.html) in [Okunikko](e3818.html) and Kamada at the entrance to [Oze](e7440.html). The one way ride takes one hour and costs 2150 yen. At Kamada it is possible to transfer to buses to Numata or Oze.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

[Nikko](e3800.html) has two railway stations, Tobu-Nikko Station and JR Nikko Station, which lie 200 meters apart from each other. All of Nikko's famous shrines and temples are clustered together in one area, about two kilometers northwest of the railway stations. You can access them by [bus](e2015.html) in ten minutes (350 yen one way or 600 yen for a day pass) or on foot in about 30-40 minutes by walking up Nikko's main street.

Two bus lines can be used to access the shrines and temples:

Buses in the direction of [Lake Chuzenji](e3806.html) stop at "Shinkyo" and "Nishisando" bus stops along the way, from where the shrines and temples are a 5-10 minute walk. Furthermore, there is the **World Heritage Meguri** loop bus, that circles around town every 10-20 minutes and stops a little bit closer to the shrines and temples. Get off at the "Omotesando" stop for [Toshogu](e3801.html) and [Rinnoji](e3803.html) or the "Taiyuin-Futarasanjinja-mae" stop for the [Taiyuin](e3802.html) and [Futarasan Shrine](e3804.html). The buses are covered by the [rail passes available for Nikko](e2358_002.html).

Buses further connect central Nikko with the [Okunikko](e3818.html) area, including [Lake Chuzenji](e3806.html) and [Yumoto Onsen](e3807.html) in Nikko National Park. A one way trip to Lake Chuzenji takes about 50 minutes and costs 1250 yen; to Yumoto Onsen it takes about 80 minutes and costs 1950 yen.

These buses are covered by many of the [rail passes available for Nikko](e2358_002.html). Alternatively, a 2-day pass for unlimited rides between Nikko and [Lake Chuzenji](e3806.html) is available for 2300 yen at Tobu Nikko Station, while a 2-day pass for unlimited rides between Nikko and [Yumoto Onsen](e3807.html) is available for 3500 yen.

Be aware, that during the [autumn leaf](e2014.html) season in October, traffic between central Nikko and [Okunikko](e3818.html) (Lake Chuzenji) can be very heavy, and buses can incur heavy delays, especially on weekends. If possible, avoid visiting Nikko on weekends and visit during the week.

Map of central Nikko:

Tobu Bus in Yumoto Onsen