---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3069.html
title: Nakano Broadway
description: Visitor guide for the Nakano Broadway shopping complex in Tokyo.
keywords: nakano, broadway, tokyo, animation, manga, idol, idols, figure, figurine, figurines, collector, collectors, item, items, merchandise
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2852
char_count: 20197
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:01:38
---

Nakano Broadway (中野ブロードウェイ) is a shopping complex in [Tokyo](e2164.html) famous for its many stores selling [anime](e3052.html) items and idol goods, inlcuding more than a dozen small Mandarake stores, which specialize in [manga](e3052.html) and anime-related collectibles. The shopping complex is a short walk from Nakano Station, which is five minute train ride from [Shinjuku](e3011.html).

There are four levels of shopping at the Nakano Broadway. The second and third levels are where the many [anime](e3052.html) and idol-related shops are located. Here, shoppers can find [manga](e3052.html), magazines, collectors' items, animation character figurines, idol merchandise, game consoles, video games, animation/idol related CDs, as well as little souvenirs to take home, such as idol playing cards or key chains.

The ground level of the Nakano Broadway has shops selling clothes, shoes, tidbits and second hand goods. The basement level is a marketplace, where the locals shop for their groceries. Products on sale range from [fruits](e2347.html) and [vegetables](e2346.html) to meat and seafood.

Nakano Broadway

Leading to the Nakano Broadway from Nakano Station is the **Nakano Sunmall**, a 225 meter long, covered shopping street with a wide variety of shops, including food joints, cafes, watch dealers, jewelers, fashion boutiques, pharmacies, game centers, book stores and others.

On the side streets branching off from the shopping street are food alleys with various restaurants, including many [izakaya](e2036_izakaya.html), that serve all different kinds of food. Here one can experience the atmosphere of the bustling food crowd while taking a break from the shopping.

Food alley branching off from the Nakano Sunmall shopping street

Nakano Broadway is a five minute walk along the Nakano Sunmall shopping street, which starts just across the north exit of Nakano Station. Nakano Station is served by the [JR Chuo Line](e2372.html) (5 minutes, 170 yen from [Shinjuku Station](e3011.html)) and the Tozai Subway Line.

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)