---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3816.html
title: Irohazaka Winding Road
description: Visitor guide for the Irohazaka Winding Road and Akechidaira Plateau, popular autumn color spots in Nikko.
keywords: irohazaka, road, akechidaira, plateau, ropeway, nikko, okunikko, 
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1826
char_count: 12354
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:01:50
---

Irohazaka viewed from the Akechidaira Observation Deck

Irohazaka (いろは坂, "Iroha Slope") is a pair of winding roads that connect the lower elevations near central [Nikko](e3800.html) to the higher elevations of the mountainous [Okunikko](e3818.html) region. "Iroha" are the first three of 48 syllables of the formerly used Japanese alphabet (which is now known as "aiueo"), and "zaka" means "slope" - the Irohazaka Winding Roads were so named because together they consist of 48 hairpin turns.

The two roads were respectively built in 1954 and 1965 as some of Japan's first toll roads, but were later turned toll free. Today, the older road is open only to downward traffic and includes a pit stop from where you can see two waterfalls. The newer road, meanwhile, is open only to upward traffic. Near the top is the [Akechidaira Plateau](e3819.html), which offers an observation deck with views over the Irohazaka and the valley below.

Spectacular [autumn colors](e2014.html) along Irohazaka can usually be enjoyed from late October to early November. Due to the autumnal popularity of Nikko, traffic can get very bad along the Irohazaka, causing delays to both cars and buses. Visitors are advised to avoid weekends and [national holidays](e2062.html) and to try to go as early as possible.

Irohazaka in winter

From JR or Tobu Nikko station, take a Tobu [bus](e2015.html) bound for [Chuzenji Onsen](e3806.html) or [Yumoto Onsen](e3807.html) and get off at the Akechidaira bus stop. The bus ride takes about 35 minutes and costs 1250 yen one way. Note that the [Akechidaira Plateau](e3819.html) can be accessed only along the uphill road. Buses running downhill in the direction of Nikko Station do not stop at the Akechidaira Plateau.

[How to get to and around Nikko](e3805.html)


[Read our Nikko Hotel Guide](/hotels/nikko.html)