---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3450.html
title: Itsukushima Shrine
description: Visitor guide for Itsukushima Shrine, Miyajima's main attraction.
keywords: itsukushima, shrine, miyajima, itsukushimajinja
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2050
char_count: 14094
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:47:12
---

Itsukushima Shrine at high tide

Construction Notice:

The 5-storied pagoda left of the shrine (when viewed from the sea) is currently covered up for renovations. The renovation work is scheduled to end on December 20, 2026.

The centuries-old Itsukushima Shrine (厳島神社, Itsukushima Jinja) on [Miyajima](e3401.html) is the source of both the island's fame and its name. Formally named Itsukushima, the island is more popularly known as "Miyajima", literally "shrine island" in [Japanese](e621.html), thanks to its star attraction. The shrine is known worldwide for its iconic "floating" torii gate.

The [shrine](e2059.html) and its [torii gate](e2059.html) are unique for being built over water, seemingly floating in the sea during high tide. The shrine consists of multiple buildings, including a prayer hall, main hall and [noh theater](e2091.html) stage, which are connected by boardwalks and supported by pillars above the sea.

Itsukushima Shrine's torii gate

[Miyajima Island](e3401.html) has a long history as a holy site of [Shinto](e2056.html). The island's highest peak, [Mount Misen](e3451.html), was worshiped by local people as early as the [6th century](e2131.html). In 1168, Taira no Kiyomori, the most powerful man in Japan during the end of the [Heian Period](e2132.html), selected the island as the site of his clan's family shrine and built Itsukushima Shrine.

The [shrine](e2059.html) is located in a small inlet, while the [torii gate](e2059.html) is set out in the [Seto Inland Sea](e5445.html). Paths lead around the inlet, and visitors enjoy walking along them while looking out onto the sea. After sunset, the shrine and the torii gate are illuminated daily until 23:00, providing a perfect backdrop for [ryokan](e2029.html) guests to enjoy an evening walk in [yukata](e2103.html) and geta sandals. It is not possible to enter the shrine after sunset, though.

Itsukushima Shrine at night

Alternatively, tourists can view the illuminated island from boat cruises. Cruises last thirty minutes, cost 1600 yen and take passengers around the bay and to the torii gate. Reservations are required and can be made through one's [ryokan](e2029.html) or at the tourist information desk.

Because the experience of Itsukushima Shrine involves the water over which it is built, it is good to [be aware of the timings of the tides](#section_links) during one's visit. At high tide the shrine and its gate appear to float above the water, and this is certainly the time at which they are most picturesque. At low tide, the water drains out of the bay. This is when visitors can take the opportunity to walk out and see the gate from up close.

The torii gate at low tide

Itsukushima Shrine is a ten minute walk from the Miyajima ferry pier.

[How to get to and around Miyajima](e3454.html)