---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3211.html
title: Yokohama Kirin Beer Factory
description: Visitor guide for the Kirin Beer Factory in Yokohama, which offers visitors a tour of Kirin's Yokohama brewing facilities.
keywords: yokohama, kirin, beer, factory, tour
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1964
char_count: 13176
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:09:46
---

The Kirin Brewery Company, one of Japan's four leading [beer](e2037_beer.html) breweries, was founded in [Yokohama](e2156.html), a city that played a leading role in Japan's adoption of beer from the West. It is possible for tourists to visit the Kirin Beer Factory in Yokohama and participate in brewery tours, which offer a glimpse into the brewing facilities and include some beer tasting.

**Brewery tours** last about 90 minutes and lead along a gallery with displays regarding the history of beer and Kirin and with views of fermentation tanks and the canning and bottling areas. Tours are usually conducted in Japanese, but an English guide may also be available. The last twenty minutes of the tour consist of beer tasting.

Kirin has a long history that is closely tied to the history of [beer](e2037_beer.html) in Japan. After the opening of the country to foreign trade, beer began to thrive in Japan in the [Meiji Period](e2130.html) (1868-1912), and particularly so in the international port city of [Yokohama](e2156.html). The Kirin Brewery Company itself was established in 1907, when two of the country's first breweries merged their operations.

Beer tasting at the end of the tour

The Kirin Beer Factory is located a ten minute walk south of Namamugi Station on the Keikyu Main Line (20 minutes, 320 yen from Shinagawa; or 13 minutes, 180 yen from Yokohama). Alternatively, it can be reached in a 15 minute walk from JR Shin-Koyasu Station on the [JR Keihin-Tohoku Line](e2371.html) (20 minutes, 310 yen from Shinagawa or 6 minutes, 170 yen from Yokohama).

[How to get to and around Yokohama](e2360.html)