---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3922.html
title: Kyoto Station
description: Visitor guide for the futuristic Kyoto Station building.
keywords: kyoto, station, kyotoeki, japan
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3468
char_count: 24209
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:42:54
---

The Kyoto Station (京都駅, Kyōto-eki) building was constructed on the 1200th anniversary of the [capital's foundation](e2132.html) in Kyoto. It was opened to the public in 1997 and stands in perfect contrast to many foreign tourists' image of [Kyoto](e2158.html) as the capital of [traditional Japan](e639.html).

The building's futuristic design was conceived by [architect](e2111_architects.html) Hara Hiroshi. It attempts to convey historical [Kyoto](e2158.html) through a modern aesthetic. The station's large main hall with its exposed steel beamed roof, called the Matrix, is meant to reflect both the structure of the station and the grid-like layout of Kyoto's street network. Hara also designed the [Umeda Sky Building](e4002.html) in [Osaka](e2157.html).

Kyoto Station is the city's transportation hub, served by Japan Railways (including the [Tokaido Shinkansen](e2018_tokaido.html)), Kintetsu Railway and the Karasuma Subway Line. It is also the site of a large bus terminal for [city buses](e2015.html) and long-distance and overnight [highway buses](e2366.html).

There are two sides to Kyoto Station: Karasuma and Hachijo. The busier Karasuma side to the north faces downtown and is named after the main street leading downtown. The main bus terminal is located on the Karasuma side, as is [Kyoto Tower](e3945.html). The calmer Hachijo side to the south provides access to more hotels, [Toji Temple](e3919.html) and a few more bus stops.

There are two tourist information centers in the building. The Tourist Information Center on the 2nd floor offers multilingual staff, pamphlets and some PC terminals for use by tourists. Even more English information is available at the International Information Center on the 9th floor. It is staffed by multilingual representatives and also provides free [internet](e2279.html) access.

Luggage storage and [takuhaibin](e2278.html) (delivery service) counters are available in the basement of the station. Coin lockers are scattered all over the building, but often fill up on busy days. Besides the station facilities, the building's 15 floors offer several other attractions and conveniences including the [Granvia Hotel](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/granvia-kyoto-kyoto.html?aid=371183), a [department store](e2072.html), an art museum, a theater and a vast array of shopping and dining options:

### Shopping

* 

  Isetan Department Store

  Hours: 10:00 to 20:00 (restaurants 11:00 to 23:00)

  JR Kyoto Isetan [department store](e2072.html) occupies ten stories in the western portion of the station building. Goods on sale include clothing, accessories, food, local souvenirs and stationery. There is also a small art museum on the 7th floor and a range of restaurants on the 11th floor.
* 

  Porta Underground Shopping Mall

  Shops: 10:00 to 20:00 (some shops open earlier)  
  Restaurants: 11:00 to 22:00

  Kyoto Station extends underground into the Porta shopping mall. There are roughly 100 shops and restaurants, as well as access to the Karasuma Subway Line.

### Other attractions

* 

  Observation Deck

  Hours: Always open  
  Admission: Free

  Reached via a long series of escalators and a final flight of stairs, an open air observation deck is located on the top floor of the station building. Unfortunately, the views from the deck are not very attractive, because they are possible only through heavily toned windows.
* 

  Skyway

  Hours: 10:00 to 22:00  
  Admission: Free

  The Skyway tunnel allows visitors to walk the length of Kyoto Station, 45 meters above the central hall. The Skyway's glass windows provide views of the city and station below. It starts from the restaurant floor on the 11th floor of the station building.

Kyoto Station is the city's main railway station, served by all [trains](e2019.html) of Japan Railways (including [shinkansen](e2018.html)), Kintetsu Railway and the Karasuma Subway Line. A large [bus](e2015.html) terminal is located in front of the station building.

[How to get to and around Kyoto](e2363.html)