---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3075.html
title: Tokyo Food Guide
description: A guide to Tokyo's food specialties, and where to dine in Tokyo.
keywords: tokyo, food, guide, dining, restaurant, restaurants, eating, eat, specialties, specialty
content_type: attraction
word_count: 4412
char_count: 30659
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:54:03
---

Inside a yakitori restaurant in Shinjuku

[Tokyo](e2164.html) is one of the world's most exciting dining destinations. The city features a wide range of both local and regional [Japanese cuisine](e620.html) in addition to all types of international fare. Its top restaurants have accrued more Michelin stars than both Paris and New York combined. But good food can be found at every price range from cheap hole-in-the-wall joints to expensive high-class restaurants with every [budget](e2028_food.html) in between.

### Tokyo specialties

As Japan's political center for over four centuries, Tokyo has naturally exerted great influence on [Japanese cuisine](e620.html). Consequently, some Tokyo specialties have become so popular that they are now known as the standard version of the dish rather than a local specialty. Local creations from Tokyo (formerly called Edo) are often referred to as "Edo-mae", literally meaning "in front of Edo", in reference to Edo Bay (now Tokyo Bay) which provided the city with its local seafood. The following are some popular Tokyo specialties:

* 

  [Nigiri-zushi](e2038.html)

  The most popular type of sushi today, [nigiri-zushi](e2038.html) originated as a fast-food dish in Tokyo. Consisting of a piece of seafood put onto a small ball of rice, it takes much less time and effort to prepare than more traditional sushi dishes. Nigiri-zushi are served at all sushi [restaurants](e2036.html) from inexpensive [conveyor belt sushi](e2036_kaitenzushi.html) to Michelin-starred restaurants. The [Tsukiji Outer Market](e3021.html) is one of the best places to eat fresh sushi.
* 

  [Tempura](/r/e106.html)

  Another of Japan's most famous [dishes](e2035.html), [tempura](/r/e106.html) also underwent major development in the capital city. Before the [Edo Period](e2128.html), mainly vegetables were used for tempura, but Edo cooks started to deep fry seafood from Edo Bay in tempura batter, resulting in the more varied dish we know today. A visit to a specialized tempura restaurant (tempura-ya) is the recommended way to enjoy tempura.
* 

  [Soba](e2341.html)

  [Soba](e2341.html) (buckwheat noodles) are popular in many regions of Japan. In Tokyo, they were particularly popular during the [Edo Period](e2128.html) and can be found all across the city today, including at standing soba eateries and establishments specialized in soba (soba-ya). The dipping sauce used in Tokyo is traditionally relatively thick, and diners are encouraged to dip their noodles into it only lightly.
* 

  [Chankonabe](e3022.html)

  [Chankonabe](e3022.html) is a hot pot dish that serves as the diet of [sumo wrestlers](e2080.html). It is a healthy, protein-rich dish that contains mainly fish or chicken and seasonal [vegetables](e2346.html). The best place to try chankonabe is at one of the specialty restaurants around the Kokugikan Sumo Stadium in [Ryogoku](e3022.html), many of which are run by ex-sumo wrestlers.
* 

  [Monjayaki](e3015.html)

  [Monjayaki](e3015.html) is a type of runny pancake made of flour and water mixed with ingredients like sliced [cabbage](e2346.html) and small pieces of seafood and meat, which are then cooked on a hot grill. A small spatula is used to scrape some of the cooked monjayaki and eat it off the grill. The "Monjayaki Street" in [Tsukishima](e3015.html) is the best place to eat the dish.
* 

  [Tsukudani](e3015.html)

  [Tsukudani](e3015.html) are small pieces of food that were simmered in a mixture of [soy sauce](e2045.html) and sweet sake to preserve them. They are commonly enjoyed as an accompaniment to a bowl of cooked [rice](e2043.html). Tsukudani has its roots on Tsukudajima Island near [Tsukishima](e3015.html) where [Tokugawa Ieyasu](e2128.html) relocated fishermen skilled in making tsukudani.
* 

  Tokyo Sweets

  Tokyo is home to various types of traditional [Japanese sweets (wagashi)](e2312.html). These include ningyoyaki, small red bean paste filled cakes shaped like dolls or other forms; dorayaki, a pastry made of sweet pancakes with a layer of red bean paste sandwiched in between; and anmitsu, a dessert typically consisting of agar jelly, a scoop of red bean paste, small [mochi](e2043.html) balls and seasonal [fruits](e2347.html) topped with sweet black sugar syrup.

### Regional specialties from across Japan

Tokyo is also a good place to enjoy regional Japanese foods from across the country, which have been available in [Tokyo](e2164.html) since the [Edo Period](e2128.html) when the regional lords (daimyo) from across Japan were forced to maintain large villas in the capital and spend alternate years there. A by-product of this policy to keep the regional lords under the shogun's control was the influx of various regional cooking styles into the capital.

These days, foods from across the country can be found at many restaurants specialized in regional cuisines. Some of the most popular regional foods that can be sampled around Tokyo come from [Okinawa](e7128.html), [Kagoshima](e4609.html), [Fukuoka](e4811.html), [Kyoto](e3963.html) and [Hokkaido](e5312.html). In addition, successful restaurants from across Japan often open outlets in [Tokyo](e2164.html) in an effort to branch out and make a name for themselves.

Okinawan restaurant in Tokyo

### International dining

International food is enjoying great popularity in Tokyo, and many Japanese chefs have achieved recognition for their skills in foreign cooking, often acquired by practical training overseas. Furthermore, Tokyo is home to various international communities, which have brought a variety of different cuisines with them.

While popular foods such as Chinese, Indian, Italian, French and Korean can be found virtually anywhere in the city, there are also a few districts serving less prominent international cuisines especially around the embassies located in the Azabu, Hiroo and [Roppongi](e3031.html) districts. Below are a few of the more concentrated international districts:

* 

  [Shin Okubo - Koreatown](e3011.html#koreatown)

  Shin Okubo, popularly known as Tokyo's Koreatown, is home to a large number of Korean residents. Consequently, many Korean shops and restaurants are found along the main road and side streets around Shin-Okubo Station, one stop north of [Shinjuku Station](e3011.html).
* 

  [Kagurazaka - France Town](e3071.html)

  [Kagurazaka](e3071.html) has a significant French presence due to a French school and a French-Japanese culture center nearby. A large variety of French cafes and restaurants can be found throughout the district alongside a host of trendy and upscale, modern and traditional Japanese restaurants.
* 

  [Ikebukuro - Chinatown](e3038.html)

  [Ikebukuro](e3038.html) is one of [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s major city centers along the [Yamanote Line](e2370.html). The area north of the station has become a little bit of a modern Chinatown with a variety of Chinese restaurants, but without the iconic entrance gates, Chinese temples or density of Chinese restaurants found in the more historic [Chinatowns](e2420.html) of Japan.

### Casual dining

There are lots and lots of casual dining restaurants of all types found across Tokyo. While restaurants are easy to find just about anywhere in the city, good places to go for a large variety of them are around train stations, entertainment districts and the restaurant floors of most [department stores](e2072.html), where there is usually a good selection of restaurants ranging from Japanese cuisine to international dining.

[Izakaya](e2036_izakaya.html) are the most common type of casual dining establishments and are good places to try a variety of dishes. They can be found in droves around train stations and entertainment districts and serve popular food items such as [yakitori](/r/e102.html), [sashimi](e2044.html) and of course [beer](e2037_beer.html). The following are a few casual dining areas around Tokyo that are well known for their atmosphere:

* 

  [Shinjuku](e3011.html)

  On the northwest side of [Shinjuku Station](e3011.html) is Omoide Yokocho, a small network of alleyways colloquially known as Piss Alley. The narrow lanes are filled with dozens of tiny eateries serving mostly [yakitori](/r/e102.html), but also [ramen](e2042.html), [soba](e2341.html) or kushiyaki. Many of the restaurants consist of just a small counter and can seat less than a dozen diners, while larger ones may have a couple of tables or a second floor.
* 

  [Yurakucho](e3072.html)

  A lively restaurant district can be found nestled beneath the train tracks around [Yurakucho Station](e3072.html). The area is typically known as "Yurakucho Gado Shita" (lit. below the guardrail), or sometimes as "Yakitori Street" due to the numerous [yakitori](/r/e102.html) restaurants in the area, but [izakaya](e2036_izakaya.html) and casual international pubs are also popular. Diners can enjoy their meals surrounded by the chatter of other customers mixed in with the sound of trains passing overhead.
* 

  [Asakusa](e3004.html)

  West of the [Sensoji Temple](e3001.html) in [Asakusa](e3004.html) is a 70-80 meter long street lined with [izakaya](e2036_izakaya.html) that exude a nostalgic charm. Nicknamed "Hoppy Street" after a popular alcoholic drink sold in the area, the restaurants that line the road specialize in beef tendon stew and other sharable dishes that go well with drinks.

### Fine dining

Tokyo is well known for its fine dining and has the highest number of Michelin-starred restaurants of any city in the world. Fine dining restaurants are often found on the top floors of skyscrapers and major [hotels](/hotels/tokyo.html), and the cuisine served at these [restaurants](e2036.html) ranges from traditional Japanese to international and fusion fare. Of course, they tend to be priced accordingly, and some restaurants may require advance reservations. The following are a few districts that are known for their fine dining establishments.

* 

  [Tokyo Station](e3037.html)

  There are several skyscrapers on the [Marunouchi](e3037.html) side of [Tokyo Station](e3037.html), such as the Marunouchi Building, which offers a variety of nice restaurants on its top two floors with views out over the city. There are also several fine restaurants at the district's leading [hotels](/hotels/tokyo.html), such as the [Tokyo Station Hotel](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/tokyo-station.html?aid=371183), the [Peninsula](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/the-peninsula-tokyo.html?aid=371183) and the [Shangri-La](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/shangri-la-tokyo.html?aid=371183).
* 

  [Shiodome](e3030.html)

  [Shiodome](e3030.html) is a recently redeveloped modern city district with elevated walkways, skyscrapers and [hotels](/hotels/tokyo.html). Some of the nicer places to dine with views over the city include the Caretta Shiodome, Shiodome City Center and Conrad Hotel.
* 

  [Shinjuku](e3011.html)

  With numerous [department stores](e2072.html) and large [hotels](/hotels/tokyo.html), Shinjuku offers a plethora of choices to travelers when it comes to dining. [Restaurants](e2036.html) in the skyscraper district west of Shinjuku Station as well as in the luxury hotels offer fine dining options in addition to the many casual dining options in the area.
* 

  [Ginza](e3005.html)

  [Ginza](e3005.html) is [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s most famous upmarket shopping and dining district, and is also home to some of the most expensive real estate in Japan. While there are not many skyscrapers, fine dining [restaurants](e2036.html) can be found in [department stores](e2072.html) and in buildings off the main streets.
* 

  Azabu

  The Azabu area between [Roppongi](e3031.html) and Hiroo is home to many embassies and consulates. As a result, it offers a lot of international [restaurants](e2036.html), including several Michelin starred establishments.

### Themed dining

Themed cafes such as maid and butler cafes, as well as [pet cafes](e2314.html) are popular attractions where you can converse or play games with a maid or butler, or spend time with animals such as cats, rabbits or birds while eating light meals or enjoying a coffee or tea. Maid cafes can easily be found in [Akihabara](e3003.html) whereas butler cafes are more concentrated around [Ikebukuro](e3038.html). Pet cafes can be found in small numbers around the city. All these types of cafes usually charge a small cover charge in addition to food and drinks.

Another type of themed dining are food theme parks which typically feature different variations of a specific food such as [ramen](e2042.html) or [gyoza](/r/e107.html). Despite the name, food theme parks are usually indoors and work similarly to a food court except that all the vendors are selling variations and regional types of the same dish. Some food theme parks around Tokyo include the Namja Gyoza Stadium in [Ikebukuro](e3038.html) and a [ramen](e2042.html) theme park in Aquacity on [Odaiba](e3008.html).

Those looking for a quirky and entertaining meal, themed restaurants like the Ninja Restaurant can be a fun and appealing attraction. Themed restaurants are decorated similarly to amusement parks, have themed menus and staff dressed in costume. The food usually follows the overall theme, and there may be some type of performance during the meal.

Namja Gyoza Stadium in Ikebukuro

### Japanese-style breakfast

The easiest place to try a Japanese-style breakfast are [hotels](/hotels/tokyo.html), many of which offer Japanese breakfast set meals or buffets with both Japanese and Western dishes. Otherwise a Japanese-style breakfast is difficult to find as most restaurants and coffee shops tend to serve Western-style breakfasts or coffee and toast sets only. One option may be [gyudon restaurants](e2345.html) which often offer basic Japanese breakfast sets at cheap prices.

For the more adventurous, the [sushi](e2038.html) restaurants in the [Tsukiji Outer Market](e3021.html) and at [Toyosu Market](e3013_market.html) are open from early morning, offering fresh sushi for breakfast. Note that many of these restaurants close by mid-afternoon.

People in line for a sushi breakfast at a popular restaurant


[Read our Tokyo Hotel Guide](/hotels/tokyo.html)