---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3976.html
title: How to get to and around Uji\: Access, Transportation and Orientation
description: How to get to and around Uji.
keywords: uji, kyoto, access, orientation, transportation
content_type: attraction
word_count: 475
char_count: 3355
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:06:50
---

[Kyoto City](e2158.html) and [Uji](e3975.html) are connected by frequent trains along the JR Nara Line. The one way trip takes about 20 minutes by [rapid train](e2016.html#category) or 30 minutes by [local train](e2016.html#category). Both rapid and local trains cost 240 yen one way. The trip is covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html).

The Keihan Railway is useful for passengers departing Kyoto from around the Kamogawa River, e.g. the [Gion](e3902.html) area, as opposed to [Kyoto Station](e3922.html). Take the Keihan Main Line to Chushojima, transfer to the Keihan Uji Line and alight at the terminal station, Keihan Uji Station. The one way trip takes about half an hour, costs around 400 yen and is not covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html).

[Osaka](e2157.html) and [Uji](e3975.html) are connected by frequent trains by Keihan Railway. From Yodoyabashi or Kyobashi stations in Osaka, the one way trip takes about one hour and costs around 490 yen. A transfer of trains is required at Chushojima Station to the Keihan Uji Line. The Keihan Railway is not covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html).

[Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) holders should take a rapid train along the JR Kyoto Line from [Osaka](e2157.html) to [Kyoto](e2158.html) and then transfer to the JR Nara Line from [Kyoto](e2158.html) to [Uji](e3975.html). This option takes about the same amount of time.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

Most of [Uji](e3975.html)'s attractions, except the more remotely located [Mampukuji](e3924.html) and [Mimurotoji](e3981.html) temples, are found around the town center near the [Byodoin Temple](e3923.html) and [Uji River](e3980.html), and can be covered entirely on foot. Both JR Uji Station and Keihan Uji Station are about a ten minute walk from Byodoin Temple. JR Uji Station lies south of [Uji River](e3980.html), while Keihan Uji is across Uji Bridge to the north of the river.

[Mampukuji](e3924.html) and [Mimurotoji](e3981.html) temples are further away from the town center, but good walkers should be able to reach them in about half an hour from the river. The most convenient way to access [Mampukuji Temple](e3924.html), however, is a short walk from Obaku Station. [Buses](e2015.html) connect both JR and Keihan Uji Stations with [Mimurotoji Temple](e3981.html).