---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3408.html
title: Hiroshima Food Guide
description: Introducing the famous dishes and foods of Hiroshima.
keywords: hiroshima, food, guide, cuisine, dishes, eat, eating, gourmet, okonomiyaki, tsukemen, momijimanju, oyster, oysters
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1902
char_count: 13085
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:41:37
---

Okonomimura in downtown Hiroshima

[Hiroshima](e2160.html) offers some local delicacies which, due to their ubiquity, visitors would probably chance upon even if they are not particularly searching. Popular dining places in the city include the area around Hiroshima Station and [downtown Hiroshima](e3406.html). The following is a list of Hiroshima's specialty foods:

* 

  Hiroshima-style Okonomiyaki

  Hiroshima's most famous food is its own style of [okonomiyaki](/r/e100.html). The local version of the dish is characterized by only a thin layer of batter and a generous amount of cabbage on top of yakisoba noodles. Popular toppings include oysters, squid and cheese. The dish is completed with bonito flakes, green laver and okonomiyaki sauce. Many okonomiyaki restaurants are found in [Okonomimura](e3406.html) and around Hiroshima Station. Diners are typically seated at a counter in front of the chef who prepares the meal on a large griddle.
* 

  Oysters

  [Hiroshima Prefecture](/list/e1238.html) accounts for approximately 60-70% of Japan's oyster production. Local oysters are both consumed domestically and shipped overseas. Oysters are offered at many dining establishments in [Hiroshima](e2160.html) and [Miyajima](e3401.html) such as [restaurants](e2036.html), food stands and [ryokan](e2029.html). They are eaten raw with [soy sauce or ponzu](e2313.html), deep-fried, baked, grilled or served on top of rice (donburi).
* 

  Momijimanju

  These are cakes baked in the shape of [maple leaves](e2014_trees.html) with a filling of sweet red bean paste. The famous dessert was created in [Miyajima](e3401.html) in the early 1900s as a local specialty to represent [Momijidani](e3456.html), a popular maple leaf viewing spot. They used to be handmade one by one, but have been machine-made since the advent of momijimanju machines. These days, momijimanju can be found with many different fillings such as [matcha](e2041.html), cheese, custard and chocolate. They are sold by many shops on [Miyajima](e3401.html) and in [Hiroshima](e2160.html).
* 

  Tsukemen

  Hiroshima-style tsukemen are cold noodles that are dipped into a red pepper sauce before eating and are known for their spiciness. Customers can usually select the degree of spiciness on a scale of one to five (or similar). The bigger the number, the spicier the sauce. The noodles are eaten with a variety of ingredients such as sliced meat, eggs, shredded leek, [cucumbers](e2346.html) and [cabbage](e2346.html).