---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3050.html
title: Best cherry blossom spots in Tokyo (Tokyo Hanami Spots)
description: A list of popular hanami (cherry blossom viewing) spots in Tokyo.
keywords: tokyo, sakura, cherry, blossom, blossoms, hanami, spot, spots
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3546
char_count: 24752
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:59:16
---

Below is a list of some of [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s most popular spots for cherry blossom viewing ([hanami](e2011.html)), including the typical timing for best viewing in the average year and japan-guide.com ratings. See also our nationwide list of [famous cherry blossom spots](e2011_where.html).

 [What to do if you missed the cherry blossoms in Tokyo](e3050_late.html)

### Central Tokyo

* 

  [Shinjuku Gyoen•••](e3034_001.html)

  Early April

  10 minute walk from Shinjuku Station  
  Admission: 9:00 to 18:00 (until 16:30 before March 15), 500 yen  
  Closed on Mondays before March 25
    
  2025: to avoid overcrowding, [advance reservations](https://shinjukugyoen.hp.peraichi.com/en) are required to enter the park on March 22, 23, 29 and 30 and on April 5 and 6 between 10:00 and 16:00.

  [Shinjuku Gyoen](e3034_001.html) features more than one thousand cherry trees of numerous [varieties](e2011_species.html), including many early and late blooming trees. There are spacious lawn areas, and the atmosphere is calm and peaceful. Thanks to the early and late blooming trees, Shinjuku Gyoen is a good hanami destination for those who miss the main season by a week or two. Alcoholic drinks are prohibited.
* 

  [Ueno Park••](e3019.html)

  Early April

  A few steps from Ueno Station, admission free  
  Illumination 2025: 3/15 to 4/6, 17:00 to 21:00 (lanterns along the street), 3/14 to 4/13, 17:00 to 22:00 (illumination in the pond area)

  One of Japan's most crowded and popular spots for cherry blossom parties, [Ueno Park](e3019.html) features more than 1000 trees along the street leading towards the National Museum and around Shinobazu Pond.
* 

  Chidorigafuchi••

  Early April

  Kudanshita Station, admission free  
  Illumination 2025: 3/28 to 4/8, 18:00 to 21:00

  Hundreds of cherry trees decorate the moats of [former Edo Castle](e3018.html) around Kitanomaru Park, creating one of Tokyo's most outstanding cherry blossom sights. Boats are available for rent, but picnics are not allowed. Trees are lit up in the evenings. Food stands can be found at nearby [Yasukuni Shrine](e2321.html) where there are another thousand cherry trees.
* 

  Sumida Park•

  Early April

  A few steps from Asakusa Station, admission free  
  Illumination 2025: 3/16 to 4/6 (west side), 3/15 to 4/13 (east side), 18:30 to 21:00

  The park stretches for a few hundred meters along both sides of Sumida River with views of the [Tokyo Sky Tree](e3064.html). Some food stands are available. Trees are lit up in the evenings. Cherry blossom viewing can also be enjoyed from boats that cruise the river.
* 

  [Yoyogi Park•](e3034_002.html)

  Early April

  Five minute walk from Harajuku Station, admission free

  Over 600 cherry trees are planted around the spacious [Yoyogi Park](e3034_002.html), offering pleasant picnic opportunities. A few food stands are available.
* 

  Asukayama Park•

  Early April

  Short walk from Oji Station, admission free

  This hilltop public park above JR Oji Station is one of Tokyo's oldest, famous hanami spots. Today there are several hundred cherry trees and picnic spots under the trees and light up in the evenings.
* 

  Meguro River•

  Early April

  Nakameguro Station, admission free  
  Illumination 2025: from start of blooming to 3/30, 17:00 to 20:00

  About 800 cherry trees line Meguro River for several hundred meters, creating an amazing sight. However, as a concrete canal, Meguro River does not offer a very natural surrounding for blossom viewers. During the Nakameguro Sakura Festival, the trees are lit up in the evenings.
* 

  Inokashira Park•

  Early April

  South of Kichijoji Station, admission free

  There are a few hundred trees in this spacious city park in [Kichijoji](e3080.html), a 15 minute train ride west of central Tokyo. The park features a central pond, and boats can be rented to view the blossoms from the water.
* 

  [Koishikawa Korakuen](e3034_003.html)

  Early April

  Ten minute walk from Iidabashi, Suidobashi or Korakuen Station  
  Admission: 9:00 to 17:00, 300 yen

  A few dozen cherry trees, including many beautiful weeping cherry trees stand around [Koishikawa Korakuen](e3034_003.html), one of Tokyo's most attractive traditional Japanese [landscape gardens](e2099.html). Note that the weeping cherry tree typically reaches full bloom a few days before the other trees.
* 

  [Koishikawa Botanical Garden](e3034_004.html)

  Early April

  10 minute walk from Hakusan or Myogadani Station  
  Admission: 9:00 to 16:30, closed Mondays, 500 yen

  [Koishikawa Botanical Garden](e3034_004.html) is a spacious park with many cherry trees of different [varieties](e2011_species.html) and a [Japanese garden](e2099.html). Because it requires an admission fee and is a place of study, it remains relatively calm.
* 

  Aoyama Cemetery

  Early April

  Five minute walk from Nogizaka Station, admission free

  The straight road, which leads through the cemetery, is lined and covered by hundreds of cherry trees. However, as a graveyard, Aoyama Cemetery does not provide the ideal surrounding for hanami parties.

### Outside Central Tokyo

* 

  [Showa Memorial Park•](e3034_showa.html)

  Early to mid April

  A few steps from Nishi-Tachikawa Station  
  Admission: 9:30 to 17:00 (until 18:00 on weekends from April), 450 yen

  Located in the western suburbs of Tokyo, [Showa Memorial Park](e3034_showa.html) (Showa Kinen Koen) is one of Tokyo's largest public parks. The different areas of the park are spread out across the expansive grounds and are connected by paved trails which are fun to explore by rental bicycle. Showa Memorial Park has about 1500 cherry trees, which usually bloom a few days later than those around central Tokyo.
* 

  Koganei Park

  Early to mid April

  Five minute bus ride or 20-30 minute walk from Musashi-Koganei Stations, admission free

  Koganei Park is a large public park in the western suburbs of Tokyo. More than a thousand cherry trees are planted around the grounds, most of which are found in the Cherry Garden (Sakura no En) and in front of the interesting [Edo-Tokyo Open Air Museum](e3032.html), which is also part of the park. The cherry trees around Koganei Park typically bloom a few days later than those around central Tokyo.
* 

  [Mount Takao](e3029.html)

  Mid to late April

  50 minute train ride from Shinjuku, admission free

  [Mount Takao](e3029.html) is a popular [hiking](e2427.html) destination in the mountains west of central Tokyo. There are scattered cherry trees along the main trail and around the summit, but the best spot for cherry blossoms is located an additional 30 minute hike beyond the summit around the Itchodaira area. Also known as the Takaosan Senbonzakura ("Mount Takao 1000 Cherry Trees"), the area offers several cherry tree [varieties](e2011_species.html), which typically bloom a couple of weeks later than the ones in central Tokyo.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding


[Read our Tokyo Hotel Guide](/hotels/tokyo.html)