---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3208.html
title: Osanbashi Pier
description: Visitor guide for Osanbashi Pier in Yokohama, a passenger terminal for cruise ships with pleasant walking paths and views.
keywords: osanbashi, pier, yokohama, cruise, ship
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1975
char_count: 13389
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:09:53
---

Osanbashi Pier, seen from the Marine Tower

The Osanbashi International Passenger Terminal (大さん橋国際客船ターミナル, Ōsanbashi Kokusai Kyakusen Terminal), also known as Osanbashi Pier, is located between [Minato Mirai](e3200.html) and [Yamashita Park](e3204.html). It is one of the piers where international cruise ships dock when they visit [Yokohama](e2156.html). The 400 meter pier has walkways and green spaces that are open to the general public, making Osanbashi Pier an interesting attraction even for travelers not boarding a ship.

The pier was originally built in 1894, but was reconstructed in 2002 as a passenger ship terminal. Its bold new design incorporates grass and floor boards that mimic rolling waves. The pier is one of Yokohama's best spots for a walk and for unobstructed views of the [Minato Mirai](e3200.html) skyline. Below the walking area there are boarding facilities, shops, restaurants and a hall for small exhibitions and events.

The Minato Mirai skyline, seen from Osanbashi Pier

Osanbashi Pier is located between [Minato Mirai](e3200.html) and [Yamashita Park](e3204.html). Since all three attractions are connected by a pleasant waterfront promenade, Osanbashi Pier is most conveniently accessed by foot from either of the other two sites.

Alternatively, the Osanbashi Pier is a five minute walk from Nihon-Odori Station on the Minato Mirai Line (6 minutes, 230 yen from Yokohama Station). It is also a 15 minute walk from Kannai Station along the [JR Negishi Line](e2371.html) (5 minutes, 150 yen from Yokohama Station).

The [Akaikutsu Loop Bus](e2360.html) stops right in front of the Passenger Terminal (Osanbashi Kyakusen Terminal bus stop). The loop bus travels between many of [Yokohama](e2156.html)'s sightseeing attractions and costs 220 yen per ride or 600 yen for a day pass.

[How to get to and around Yokohama](e2360.html)