---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3940.html
title: Takao
description: Visitor guide for Takao, an area north-west of Kyoto, and the temples Kozanji, Saimyoji, and Jingoji.
keywords: takao, kyoto, kozanji, saimyoji, jingoji.
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3414
char_count: 23621
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:43:57
---

Takao (高雄) is a sparsely populated, mountainous area with three historic [temples](e2058.html) along its forested valley, a one hour [bus](e2015.html) ride north of central [Kyoto](e2158.html). Worth a visit at any time of the year, Takao is most popular when the [autumn colors](e2014.html) peak usually around mid November.

**Kozanji Temple** dates back to 774 and is recognized as a [World Heritage Site](e2251.html). Inside Kozanji, visitors can see what some consider Japan's first [manga](e2070.html), a scroll depicting animals in a satire of the court life of the [Heian Period](e2132.html). In another first, Kozanji is considered the original site of [tea](e2041.html) cultivation in Japan. The original tea plantation has recently been restored for visitors to see.

Excerpt from Japan's first manga displayed at Kozanji

**Jingoji Temple** is the most visited among Takao's temples. A long set of stone stairs make for an impressive and tiring approach. The temple grounds feature a large entrance gate and multiple halls, as well as a path to an observation point with views over the valley. Small clay discs with inscriptions can be purchased there to be thrown into the valley for good luck.

**Saimyoji Temple** was originally built as a detached [temple](e2058.html) of Jingoji. It is not as big or impressive as Jingoji, but still interesting. The vermilion covered Shigetsukyo Bridge, which leads over a river to the temple entrance, is a particularly well known sight.

Jingoji Temple in Autumn

Takao is connected with central Kyoto by local JR buses and Kyoto City Bus.

JR buses for Takao leave from Kyoto Station every 20 to 30 minutes, cost 230 yen one way and take 50 minutes to get to Takao. The buses can also be boarded at stops along the way, including JR Nijo Station and [Ninnaji](e3929.html). The JR [buses](e2015.html) are also covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), [JR Kansai Area Pass](e2361_03.html), [JR Kansai Wide Area Pass](e2361_08.html) and a few other [rail passes](e2357.html) by JR West.

Takao can also be reached by Kyoto City Bus number 8, which departs from Shijo-Karasuma every 30 to 60 minutes, costs 230 yen one way and takes 45 minutes.

In the Takao area, the buses stop at the Takao bus stop (高雄), which is most convenient for accessing Jingoji and Saimyoji, before terminating at the Toganoo bus stop (栂ノ尾), which is most convenient for accessing Kozanji. About half of the JR buses continue to run deeper into the valley instead of terminating at the Toganoo bus stop.

[How to get to and around Kyoto](e2363.html)