---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3841.html
title: How to get to and around Nasu-Shiobara\: Access, Transportation and Orientation
description: How to get to and around Nasu-Shiobara.
keywords: nasu, shiobara, nasushiobara, nasu-shiobara, access, orientation, transportation, directions, get there, train, bus
content_type: attraction
word_count: 655
char_count: 4604
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:09:03
---

### How to get to Nasu-Shiobara

#### From Tokyo by shinkansen

[Tokyo](e2164.html) and [Nasu-Shiobara](e3841.html) stations are connected by hourly trains along the [JR Tohoku Shinkansen](e2018_tohoku.html) (75 minutes, about 5500 yen, covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), [Tokyo Wide Pass](e2361_06.html), [JR East Nagano Niigata Area Pass](e2361_nagano_niigata.html), [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html) and [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html)).

From Nasu-Shiobara Station, hourly JR [buses](e2015.html) run to [Shiobara Onsen](e3843.html) (1 hour, 1240 yen, covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), [JR East Nagano Niigata Area Pass](e2361_nagano_niigata.html) and [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html), but not by the other JR passes), while hourly Kanto buses run to [Nasu Onsen](e3842.html) (not covered by any JR pass), where all stop at Nasu Yumoto (50 minutes, 1170 yen), and most continue on to the Nasu Ropeway from April to November (75 minutes, 1640 yen).

#### From Tokyo by local train

The Nasu-Shiobara region can also be reached by frequent [local](e2016.html) or [rapid](e2016.html) trains along the JR Utsunomiya Line from central [Tokyo](e2164.html) (Tokyo, Ueno, Shinagawa stations). The one way trip takes around three hours, costs around 3000 yen and requires a transfer at Utsunomiya Station.

For [Shiobara Onsen](e3843.html), get off at Nishi Nasuno Station where hourly JR buses depart for the town (45 minutes, 990 yen, covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), [JR East Nagano Niigata Area Pass](e2361_nagano_niigata.html) and [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html), but not by the other JR passes). For [Nasu Onsen](e3842.html), get off at Kuroiso Station and change to an hourly Kanto bus for Nasu Onsen (not covered by any JR pass), where all buses stop at Nasu Yumoto (35 minutes, 950 yen), and most continue on to the Nasu Ropeway from April to November (1 hour, 1590 yen).

#### From Tokyo by highway bus

Kanto Bus runs [highway buses](e2366.html) between Tokyo ([Busta Shinjuku](e3011.html)) and [Nasu Onsen](e3842.html). The one way trip takes about 3.5 hours and costs 3800 yen.

Some of the buses also stop at the Aguriparu Shiobara bus stop (アグリパル塩原, 2.5 hours, 3400 yen one way) near [Shiobara Onsen](e3843.html), from where local JR buses connect to the center of town (20 minutes, 620 yen).

#### From Nikko to Shiobara Onsen

There are hourly train connections between [Nikko](e3800.html) (Tobu-Nikko Station) and Kamimiyori Shiobaraonsenguchi Station (100 minutes, 1220 yen one way). One or two transfers of trains are required along the way. These trains are not covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and only as far as Shin-Fujiwara Station by the [Nikko Passes](e2358_002.html). From Kamimiyori Shiobaraonsenguchi Station, there are buses to [Shiobara Onsen](e3843.html) (25 minutes, 200 yen one way, every 1-2 hours).

#### From Aizu Wakamatsu to Shiobara Onsen

There are hourly train connections between [Aizu-Wakamatsu](e7700.html) and Kamimiyori Shiobaraonsenguchi Station (100-110 minutes, 2620 yen one way). Typically two transfers of trains are required along the way. These trains are not covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html). From Kamimiyori Shiobaraonsenguchi Station, there are buses to [Shiobara Onsen](e3843.html) (25 minutes, 200 yen one way, every 1-2 hours).

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](/e/e2196.html).

Nasu-Shiobara Station is the transportation hub of the [Nasu-Shiobara](e3840.html) region with [shinkansen](e2018.html) connections to [Tokyo](e2164.html) and buses to [Shiobara Onsen](e3843.html) and [Nasu Onsen](e3842.html). Most of the attractions lie along the respective bus lines, but some may be difficult to access without a car. A [rental car](e2024.html) is very convenient for visiting Nasu-Shiobara, and rental outlets can be found around Nasu-Shiobara Station.