---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3038.html
title: Ikebukuro
description: Visitor guide for Ikebukuro, one of Tokyo's multiple city centers.
keywords: ikebukuro, tokyo, travel, guide
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3300
char_count: 23518
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:59:35
---

Ikebukuro Station viewed from the Sunshine City observation deck

Ikebukuro (池袋) is one of [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s multiple city centers, found around the northwestern corner of the [Yamanote loop line](e2370.html). At the district's center stands Ikebukuro Station, a busy commuter hub traversed by three subway and multiple urban and suburban train lines. It is one of Japan's busiest [railway](e2019.html) stations, handling over a million passengers per day.

Ikebukuro offers plenty of entertainment, shopping and dining opportunities. It is the battleground between the **Tobu and Seibu** conglomerates, which operate large [department stores](e2072.html) on each side of the station, as well as train lines from Ikebukuro into the suburbs. Seibu has also a stake in [Sunshine City](#sunshine), a large commercial complex not far from the station.

Manga and cosplay shops along Otome Road

While not as well known as [Akihabara](e3003.html), Ikebukuro is also a center of **otaku culture**. Unlike Akihabara, Ikebukuro caters more to a female clientele with butler cafes and [anime, manga](e2070.html) and cosplay related shops. The center of the female otaku scene is located along Otome Road just north of [Sunshine City](#sunshine). It is also said to be a good place to find dojinshi, or self published manga or novels, especially those produced for women.

### Department stores

* 

  Tobu

  Hours: 10:00 to 20:00 (upper floors 10:30 to 19:00)  
  Restaurants: 11:00 to 22:00

  Located on top of the station's west exit is the Tobu Department Store, one of [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s largest [department stores](e2072.html). It belongs to the Tobu Group, which also operates several suburban railway lines, including the Tobu Tojo Line which terminates at Ikebukuro Station.
* 

  Seibu

  Shops: 10:00 to 21:00 (until 20:00 on Sundays and [national holidays](e2062.html))  
  Restaurants: 11:00 to 23:00 (from 10:30 on weekends and holidays)

  Located on top of the station's east exit is the flagship Seibu Department Store, another of [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s largest department stores. It belongs to the Seibu Group, which also operates several suburban railway lines, including the Seibu Ikebukuro Line which terminates at Ikebukuro Station.

### Sunshine City

Opened in 1978, Sunshine City is Tokyo's first [city within the city](e3027.html). The focal point of the complex is the 240 meter tall Sunshine 60 skyscraper. The complex contains shops and restaurants, an [aquarium](#aquarium), planetarium, museum, [indoor theme parks](#namco), as well as the [Sunshine Prince Hotel](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/sunshine-city-prince.html?aid=371183) and offices. Sunshine City's shops are open daily from 10:00 to 20:00 and its restaurants from 11:00 to 22:00.

* 

  Sunshine 60 Observation Deck

  Hours: 10:00 to 21:00 (entry until 20:00)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 700-1200 yen depending on the day

  An [observation deck](e3057.html) is located on the top floor of the 240 meter tall Sunshine 60 skyscraper, offering nice views over the city.
* 

  Namja Town

  Hours: 10:00 to 21:00 (entry until 20:00)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 1000 yen (entry only), 3700 yen (entry and unlimited rides)

  Namja Town is an indoor theme park by Namco, the creator of Pacman and many other arcade games and leisure products. Namja Town includes various small rides and attractions. There are two food corners specialized in [gyoza](/r/e107.html) and desserts in a [Showa Period](e2129.html) town setting with recreated old alleys.
* 

  Sunshine Aquarium

  Hours vary; typically 9:30 to 21:00 in spring and summer, and 10:00 to 18:00 in autumn and winter  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 2600-2800 yen depending on the day

  The Sunshine Aquarium exhibits creatures from seas, oceans and tropical forests around the world, including stingrays, sunfish, frogs, snakes, penguins, seals and otters. It is located on the 10th floor of the World Import Mart Building in the [Sunshine City](#sunshine) complex.

### Electronics stores

* 

  Bic Camera

  Hours: 10:00 to 22:00

  Bic Camera, one of Japan's leading electronics retailers, has its flagship store at the east exit of Ikebukuro Station. Several more branch stores are located on both sides of the station, including an outlet branch.

### Other attractions

* 

  Tokyo Metropolitan Art Space

  Times and fees vary by event

  The Tokyo Metropolitan Art Space is a public art center that stages performing arts, especially concerts, operas, theater and musicals. Its main hall is equipped with one of Japan's largest pipe organs.

Ikebukuro Station is a major station on the [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html). It is also served by the [JR Saikyo Line](e2373.html), [JR Shonan Shinjuku Line](e2374.html), Tobu Tojo Line, Seibu Ikebukuro Line and the Marunouchi, Yurakucho and Fukutoshin subway lines.

### From Tokyo Station

15 minutes and 210 yen by the Marunouchi Subway Line or 25 minutes and 210 yen by the JR Yamanote Line.

### From Shinjuku Station

8 minutes and 170 yen by the JR Yamanote, Saikyo or Shonan-Shinjuku lines.

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)