---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3310.html
title: Best cherry blossom spots in Nagoya (Nagoya Hanami Spots)
description: A list of popular hanami (cherry blossom viewing) spots in Nagoya.
keywords: nagoya, sakura, cherry, blossom, blossoms, hanami, spot, spots
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2048
char_count: 13485
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:56:29
---

Below is a list of [Nagoya](e2155.html)'s most popular spots for cherry blossom viewing ([hanami](e2011.html)), including the typical timing for best viewing in the average year and japan-guide.com ratings. See also our nationwide list of [famous cherry blossom spots](e2011_where.html).

* 

  Yamazakigawa Riverside••

  Early April

  10 minute walk from Mizuho-Undojo-Higashi Station  
  Admission: free

  The Shikinomichi ("Path of Four Seasons") along [Nagoya](e2155.html)'s Yamazaki River is designated as one of Japan's 100 best cherry blossom spots. The river is lined by hundreds of cherry trees for nearly a kilometer.
* 

  [Nagoya Castle•](e3300.html)

  Early April

  Short walk from Nagoyajo Station  
  9:00 to 16:30, 500 yen

  Many somei yoshino trees, several weeping cherry trees and small numbers of less commonly seen cherry tree [varieties](e2011_species.html) are planted around the pleasant park and along the moats of [Nagoya Castle](e3300.html).
* 

  Tsuruma Park (Tsuruma Koen)•

  Early April

  Tsurumai Subway Station  
  Admission: free

  Tsuruma Park is probably [Nagoya](e2155.html)'s most popular city park for cherry blossom viewing. The public park in central Nagoya offers many food stands and space for cherry blossom viewing parties under the trees.
* 

  Nagoya Peace Park (Nagoya Heiwa Koen)•

  Early April

  20-25 minute walk from Higashiyama Koen Station  
  Admission: free

  A small forest of cherry trees and two ponds provide pleasant space for cherry blossom viewing picnics in the Cherry Orchard (Sakura no En) section of Nagoya Peace Park.
* 

  [Inuyama Castle•](e3351.html)

  Early April

  45 minutes north of Nagoya  
  9:00 to 17:00, 550 yen

  The celebrated [Inuyama Castle](e3351.html) outside of [Nagoya](e2155.html) is surrounded by hundreds of cherry trees. Trees are found both around the castle keep on top of the hill, and around the base of the hill and [Urakuen Garden](e3352.html), another of [Inuyama](e3350.html)'s sightseeing spots.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

[How to get to and around Nagoya](e3302.html)