---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3812.html
title: Kegon Waterfall (Kegon no taki)
description: Visitor guide for Kegon Waterfall (Kegon no taki) in Nikko
keywords: kegon, taki, kegonnotaki, waterfall, falls, nikko, walking, outdoors, japan
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1790
char_count: 12150
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:02:07
---

The almost 100 meter tall Kegon Waterfall (華厳の滝, Kegon no taki) is the most famous of [Nikko](e3800.html)'s waterfalls. It is even ranked as one of Japan's three most beautiful falls, along with [Nachi Waterfall](e4955.html) in [Wakayama Prefecture](/list/e1229.html) and [Fukuroda Waterfall](e6250.html) in [Ibaraki Prefecture](/list/e1211.html).

Kegon Waterfall is the only exit for the waters of [Lake Chuzenji](e3806.html). It can be seen from a free observation platform that is easily accessible on foot, as well as from a paid platform at the base of the falls. The paid platform is accessed via a 100 meter deep elevator and offers more impressive views. The sight of the waterfall in combination with Lake Chuzenji can be enjoyed from Akechidaira Observatory, which is accessible by ropeway from [Akechidaira Plateau](e3819.html).

Kegon Waterfall is also a popular [autumn color](e2014.html) spot. The trees around the waterfall are usually most colorful from mid to late October. In the winter the waterfall is impressive as well when it freezes almost completely solid.

Kegon no taki from the upper observation platform (free of charge)

Kegon Waterfall is a short walk from the Chuzenji Onsen bus terminal. The [bus](e2015.html) ride from JR or Tobu Nikko station to Chuzenji Onsen takes about 50 minutes, costs 1250 yen and is covered by the [Nikko All Area Pass](e2358_002.html). A 2-day pass for unlimited bus rides between Nikko and Chuzenji Onsen is available for 2300 yen at Tobu Nikko Station.

[How to get to and around Nikko](e3805.html)