---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3061.html
title: Best autumn leaf viewing spots in Tokyo
description: A list of popular koyo (autumn leaf viewing) spots in Tokyo.
keywords: tokyo, autumn, koyo, leaf, leaves, color, colors, fall, foliage, spots, spot, maple
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3230
char_count: 22564
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:00:09
---

Below is a list of some of [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s best [autumn color](e2014.html) (koyo) spots with the approximate timings of the best viewing in the average year. Generally speaking, the colors in Tokyo are usually best from late November to early December. See also our [nationwide list of koyo spots](e2014_where.html).

* 

  [Rikugien••](e3026.html)

  Late November to early December

  Illumination 2025: 11/28 to 12/9, 18:00 to 20:30 (entry until 19:30), 1200 yen (1000 yen if purchased [online](https://www.asoview.com/channel/ticket/TV7527t75J/ticket0000023918/))

  [Rikugien](e3026.html) is a spectacular and very popular autumn color spot. Some of the best views in this traditional [Japanese garden](e2099.html) can be enjoyed from the hilltop viewpoint, around the Togetsukyo Bridge, and along the maple lined canal that runs by the Tsutsuji no Chaya teahouse.
* 

  [Koishikawa Korakuen••](e3034_003.html)

  Late November to early December

  One of the best autumn colors spots in Tokyo, [Koishikawa Korakuen](e3034_003.html) is another traditional Japanese [landscape garden](e2099.html). Its main pond is surrounded by dozens of maples trees which turn brilliant shades of orange and red in late November. Several other picturesque autumn spots can be seen around the park's three main ponds.
* 

  Jingu Gaien Icho Namiki (Ginkgo Avenue)•

  Late November to early December

  Illumination 2025: 11/22 to 11/30, 16:30 to 19:30

  The Icho Namiki is a popular, ginkgo-lined avenue in Meiji Jingu Gaien Park. The uniquely trimmed trees turn a brilliant golden color in late November, drawing crowds of people to stroll under the leaves or relax at one of the sidewalk cafes. The Icho Namiki starts about one block from Aoyama-Itchome Subway Station.
* 

  [Shinjuku Gyoen•](e3034_001.html)

  Mid November to mid December

  A large park with a variety of trees and a fairly long season, [Shinjuku Gyoen](e3034_001.html) is an attractive place to escape the city and see some autumn colors. Some of the best areas in the park to see the changing leaves are the Japanese garden and the Momijiyama ("Maple Mountain").
* 

  [Mount Takao•](e3029.html)

  Mid to late November

  [Mount Takao](e3029.html) in the mountains west of central Tokyo is a busy hiking destination and one of Tokyo's most popular autumn color spots. A network of well traveled trails lead up the mountain, but visitors can save some time by taking a cable car or chair lift part way up.
* 

  [Showa Memorial Park•](e3034_showa.html)

  Late October to late November

  Illumination 2025: 10/30 to 11/30, 16:30 to 21:00 (entry until 20:30), 450 yen, an additional ticket is required to enter the Japanese garden (1300 yen; 1150-1200 yen if purchased in advance), note that only the Nishi-Tachikawa and Tachikawa entrances will be open during the evening.

  [Showa Memorial Park](e3034_showa.html) (Showa Kinen Koen) is an extremely large park near Tachikawa Station in western Tokyo. It consists of several gardens and recreation areas connected by bicycle and walking paths. The ginkgo trees near the Tachikawa Entrance and along a road in the southwest of the park, and the maples around the Japanese garden exhibit especially beautiful [autumn colors](e2014.html).
* 

  [Yoyogi Koen](e3034_002.html)

  Late November to early December

  The best autumn colors of this large, western style park are not found around its central lawns. Instead, head to the southern side of [Yoyogi Park](e3034_002.html) where there are beautiful stands of red maples and brilliant yellow ginkgo trees.
* 

  [Imperial East Garden](e3018.html)

  Late November to early December

  The best place to see autumn colors at the [Imperial East Gardens](e3018.html) is the Japanese style Ninomaru Garden built in the second circle of defense of the former Edo Castle. In addition, several ginkgos and other trees are scattered around the castle walls and grounds of the spacious park.
* 

  [Mount Mitake](e3036.html)

  Early to late November

  Part of the Chichibu Tama Kai National Park, the 1000 meter tall [Mount Mitake](e3036.html) is a popular hiking destination within easy reach of central Tokyo. Autumn colors here can be enjoyed a week or two earlier than down in the city center.
* 

  [Hama Rikyu](e3025.html)

  Late November to early December

  Although not an outstanding autumn colors spot, there are some areas in [Hama Rikyu](e3025.html) that display nice colors, particularly along the northwestern shore of the garden's large, central pond.


[Read our Tokyo Hotel Guide](/hotels/tokyo.html)