---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3861.html
title: Tokyo to Utsunomiya\: How to get to and around Utsunomiya
description: Access, orientation and transportation in Utsunomiya.
keywords: utsunomiya, tochigi, access, orientation, transportation, get there, directions, shinkansen, train, bus, tram
content_type: attraction
word_count: 445
char_count: 3216
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:13:39
---

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

Take the [JR Tohoku Shinkansen](e2018_tohoku.html) from [Tokyo](e2164.html) (Tokyo or Ueno stations) to [Utsunomiya](e3860.html). The one way trip takes around 50 minutes, costs about 4500 yen and is covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and the [JR Tokyo Wide Pass](e2361_06.html) among others. Trains depart approximately every 20 minutes.

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

Trains along the JR Utsunomiya Line and [JR Shonan Shinjuku Line](e2374.html) require a little under two hours for their trip between [Tokyo](e2164.html) (Shinagawa, Tokyo, Ueno, Shibuya, Shinjuku or Ikebukuro stations) and [Utsunomiya](e3860.html). The one way fare is 1980 yen and is covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and the [JR Tokyo Wide Pass](e2361_06.html) among others. There are multiple departures per hour.

Take a [limited express](e2016.html#category) train from [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s [Asakusa](e3004.html) Station to Tochigi Station (70 minutes) and transfer to the Tobu Utsunomiya Line for [Tobu-Utsunomiya](e3860.html)  (45 minutes). The entire one way trip takes around two hours and costs about 2100-2900 yen. There are two connections per hour. Alternatively, the journey can be done by [local and express](e2016.html#category) trains for only 1230 yen; however, it will require about 30 more minutes and multiple transfers along the way.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

[Utsunomiya](e3860.html) is the capital of [Tochigi Prefecture](/list/e1210.html). The city's transportation hub is **JR Utsunomiya Station**, which sits at the center of a dense network of [buses](e2015.html), including buses to the [Oya History Museum](e3862.html) and [Oya Temple](e3863.html), and one tram line (Utsunomiya Light Rail), which is currently not of great importance to tourists, but could become more relevant in the future when it is planned to be extended in the direction of Oya. Utsunomiya Station is also connected to [Nikko](e3800.html) via the JR Nikko Line, 45 minutes northwest by train.

A secondary transportation hub is **Tobu-Utsunomiya Station**, about 1.5 km west of the JR station. It is the terminal station of the Tobu Utsunomiya Line. Many bus lines serve both JR Utsunomiya and Tobu Utsunomiya stations, including the buses in the direction of Oya.

Utsunomiya Light Rail