---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3929.html
title: Ninnaji Temple
description: Visitor guide for Ninnaji, a Buddhist temple in Kyoto.
keywords: ninnaji, temple, kyoto
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3330
char_count: 23088
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:43:24
---

The inner gate of Ninnaji Temple and the mountains of northern Kyoto

Ninnaji (仁和寺) is one of [Kyoto](e2158.html)'s great [temples](e2058.html) that are listed as [World Heritage Sites](e2251.html). It is the head temple of the Omuro School of the [Shingon sect](e2055.html) of [Buddhism](e2055.html) and was founded in 888 by the reigning [emperor](e2135.html). Over many centuries, a member of the Imperial Family used to serve as head priest, and the temple was also known as Omuro Imperial Palace.

Due to the many wars and fires that ravaged Kyoto throughout its history, none of the buildings from the temple's foundation in the 9th century still survive. The oldest buildings date back to the beginning of the [Edo Period](e2128.html) in the early 1600s, including the main hall (Kondo), the Kannon Hall, the Niomon front gate, the Chumon inner gate and the five storied pagoda.

A pond and rock garden beside the temple's former palace buildings (Goten)

The highlight of a visit to Ninnaji is the **Goten**, the former residence of the head priest in the southwestern corner of the temple complex. Built in the style of an imperial palace, the graceful buildings are connected with each other by covered corridors, feature elegantly painted [sliding doors](e2007.html) (fusuma) and are surrounded by beautiful rock and pond [gardens](e2099.html).

Ninnaji is also famous for a grove of locally cultivated, late blooming [cherry trees](e2011.html) called **Omuro Cherries**. Because the trees are late blooming, Ninnaji is a good place to visit towards the end of Kyoto's [cherry blossom season](e2011_when.html), which is usually around mid April.

Ninnaji's five storied pagoda and blooming cherry trees

Ninnaji is a ten minute walk west of [Ryoanji Temple](e3909.html) and just a few steps from Omuro Ninnaji Station on the Keifuku Kitano Line, a small, tram-like train, which connects [Arashiyama](e3912.html) with the Kitano district.

From [Kyoto Station](e3922.html), Ninnaji Temple can be reached by direct JR bus. The bus ride takes about 30 minutes, costs 230 yen and is covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), [JR Kansai Area Pass](e2361_03.html), [JR Kansai Wide Area Pass](e2361_08.html), a few other [rail passes](e2357.html) by JR West, as well as by Kyoto's one-day bus pass. There are buses every 15-30 minutes.

[How to get to and around Kyoto](e2363.html)