---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3728.html
title: Yagen Valley
description: Visitor guide for the Yagen Valley on the Shimokita Peninsula.
keywords: yagen, valley, onsen, kappa, bath, shimokita, peninsula
content_type: attraction
word_count: 373
char_count: 2701
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:05:48
---

Much of the [Shimokita Peninsula](e3725.html) is sparsely inhabited due to its remote, rugged terrain. No exception, the Yagen Valley (薬研渓流, Yagen Keiryū) in the middle of the peninsula is a quiet, isolated area offering hiking, [hot springs](e2292.html) and little else.

Two of the Yagen Valley's hot spring [baths](e2292.html) are named after the kappa, a mythical animal, that lives in ponds, rivers and lakes and tends to be somewhat devious; its favorite snack is small children. However, kappa are not really evil, just a bit mischievous. They can be persuaded to exchange a meal of children for a [cucumber](e2346.html), another favored snack. In fact, the Japanese word for [sushi rolls](e2038.html) filled with cucumber is kappamaki due to the kappa's love of the vegetable.

Meoto Kappa no Yu

The two kappa baths are located in the Oku-Yagen area ("Inner Yagen Valley") in the back of the valley, facing the river and offering pleasant views. The **Meoto Kappa no Yu** offers open-air, gender-segregated baths and comes with changing room facilities and a small restaurant. The **Kappa no Yu** is equipped with a roof and changing room facilities. Formerly mixed, the pool now changes between women-only and men-only every two hours.

[Hiking](e2427.html) is also possible in the Yagen Valley. Easy paths take hikers along the riverside and through some of the old growth forest. There are only a few lodging options in the valley, and they include small [ryokan](e2029.html) and [minshuku](e2026.html) (small inns).

Kappa enjoying a bath

There exists no public transportation to the Yagen Valley, and the only way of accessing the valley is by [rental car](e2024.html).

[How to get to and around the Shimokita Peninsula](e3726.html)