---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3883.html
title: Okukinu Onsen Travel Guide
description: Visitor guide for the remote hot springs of Okukinu, Tochigi Prefecture.
keywords: okukinu, kaniyu, onsen, hot spring, springs, spa, rotemburo, rotenburo
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1900
char_count: 12443
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:49:33
---

Kaniyu

Okukinu Onsen (奥鬼怒温泉) is a collection of four remote [hot spring](e2292.html) [ryokan](e2029.html) in the far back of a remote valley in the mountains of [Tochigi Prefecture](/list/e1210.html). The ryokan offer some of the most atmospheric, rustic outdoor baths in the [Kanto Region](/list/e1103.html), worlds apart from bustling [Tokyo](e2164.html) and built-up [Kinugawa Onsen](e3875.html).

[Cars](e2024.html) and [buses](e2015.html) can proceed into the valley only as far as the Meotobuchi parking lot at the entrance to the Okukinu area. From there, staying guests can arrange a pick-up by their [ryokan](e2029.html), while non-staying visitors have to hike up the valley for about 90-120 minutes (one way) to reach the four ryokan (Kaniyu, Haccho-no-yu, Nikkozawa and Teshirosawa), which stand about 10-15 minutes apart from each other. The hiking trail may not be passable during winter.

Among the four [ryokan](e2029.html), Kaniyu (加仁湯) and Haccho-no-yu (八丁の湯) are the most popular, each offering multiple indoor and outdoor [baths](e2292.html) with milky, sulfuric waters and views into the nature. In the past, the baths - some gender separated, some mixed - could also be enjoyed by non-staying guests for a fee during daytime; but unfortunately Haccho-no-yu has stopped the service and Kaniyu introduced a requirement for advance reservations through a Japanese form or by phone, making a daytrip visit difficult for non-Japanese speakers.

Haccho-no-yu

Four [buses](e2015.html) per day (one bus about every three hours) run from [Kinugawa Onsen](e3875.html) Station as far as Meotobuchi (女夫渕, 95 minutes, 1570 yen one way), from where guests can get picked up by their [ryokan](e2029.html) by van. Hiking up the valley takes about 90-120 minutes one way. Travelers who access Okukinu by [car](e2024.html) can leave their car for free on the Meotobuchi parking lot.

[How to get to and around Kinugawa Onsen](e3876.html)