---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3912.html
title: Arashiyama and Sagano
description: Visitor guide for Arashiyama, a pleasant district of Kyoto.
keywords: arashiyama, sagano, kyoto, japan
content_type: attraction
word_count: 4581
char_count: 31931
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:43:10
---

Togetsukyo Bridge in autumn

Arashiyama (嵐山) is a pleasant, touristy district in the western outskirts of [Kyoto](e2158.html). The area has been a popular destination since the [Heian Period](e2132.html) (794-1185), when nobles would enjoy its natural setting. Arashiyama is particularly popular during the [cherry blossom](e2011.html) and [fall color](e2014.html) seasons.

The [Togetsukyo Bridge](#togetsukyo) is Arashiyama's well known, central landmark. Many small shops, restaurants and other attractions are found nearby, including [Tenryuji Temple](#tenryuji), Arashiyama's famous [bamboo groves](#bamboo) and pleasure boats that are available for rent on the river.

North of central Arashiyama the atmosphere becomes less touristy and more rural, with several small temples scattered along the base of the wooded mountains. The area north of the Togetsukyo Bridge is also known as Sagano, while "Arashiyama" technically refers just to the mountains south of the river but is commonly used to name the entire district.

Pleasure boats and cherry blossoms

One of the most enjoyable and convenient ways to travel around the Sagano area is by rental [bicycle](e2210.html), which are available for around 1000 yen near the train stations. Cycling through rural residential areas and past fields while traveling between temples can be one of the most enjoyable parts of a visit to Arashiyama. There is also an attractive [preserved town area](#sagatoriimoto) near the [Adashino Nenbutsuji Temple](#nenbutsuji).

Arashiyama becomes most attractive (and busy) around early April and the second half of November when the [cherry blossom](e2011.html) and [fall color](e2014.html) seasons usually peak. During the summer months, traditional [cormorant fishing](#ukai) is practiced on the Hozu River for tourists to watch.

* 

  Togetsukyo Bridge

  The Togetsukyo Bridge (lit. "Moon Crossing Bridge") is Arashiyama's most iconic landmark. It was originally built during the [Heian Period](e2132.html) (794-1185) and most recently reconstructed in the 1930s. The bridge looks particularly attractive in combination with the forested mountainside in the background. A riverside park with dozens of [cherry trees](e2011.html) is located just adjacent to the bridge.
* 

  Bamboo Groves

  The paths that cut through the bamboo groves make for a nice walk. The groves are particularly attractive when there is a light wind and the tall bamboo stalks sway gently back and forth. The bamboo has been used to manufacture various products, such as baskets, cups, boxes and mats at local workshops for centuries.
* 

  Okochi Sanso Villa

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 1000 yen

  This is the former villa of the popular actor Okochi Denjiro (1896-1962), located in the back of Arashiyama's bamboo groves. It consists of several different gardens and buildings, including living quarters and tea houses. The buildings can be viewed only from the outside. Admission includes [matcha green tea](e2041.html) with a [snack](e2312.html).
* 

  Monkey Park Iwatayama

  Hours: 9:00 to 16:30 (entry until 16:00)  
  Closed: Days with heavy rain or snow  
  Admission: 800 yen

  The entrance to the monkey park can be found just south of the [Togetsukyo Bridge](#togetsukyo). The park is located in the Arashiyama mountains, and it takes about ten minutes to hike to the area where dozens of monkeys roam freely. There are also nice views down onto the city.
* 

  Saga-Toriimoto Preserved Street

  Much of this street along the way to the [Adashino Nenbutsuji Temple](#nenbutsuji) has been preserved in the style of the [Meiji Period](e2130.html) (1868-1912). Many of the buildings are traditional machiya ("town houses") that today serve as shops and restaurants.
* 

  Rakushisha Residence

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (Mar to Dec), 10:00 to 16:00 (Jan to Feb)  
  Closed: December 31 and January 1  
  Admission: 300 yen

  The Rakushisha Residence is a thatched hut that belonged to the 17th century haiku [poet](e2112.html) Mukai Kyorai. Mukai was a student of Basho Matsuo, one of Japan's greatest poets. Basho even composed a few poems here. Mukai named his residence Rakushisha ("fallen [persimmon](e2347.html) hut") after a storm had taken down the fruits of the surrounding trees.
* 

  Fukuda Art Museum

  Hours: 10:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: between exhibitions, [New Year](e2276.html)  
  Admission: 1500 yen

  The Fukuda Art Museum displays works from the collection of Fukuda Yoshitaka, the founder of Aiful, a leading consumer finance company. It is housed in a beautiful modern building whose design contains elements of the architecture of traditional town houses. The collection consists mainly of Japanese paintings dating from the [Edo Period](e2128.html) and later, including some spectacular byobu screens.

### Temples

* 

  [Tenryuji Temple](e3913.html)

  Hours: 8:30 to 17:00 (entry until 16:50)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 500 yen for gardens, additional 300 yen to enter buildings

  Ranked among Kyoto's five great [Zen](e2055.html) [temples](e2058.html), Tenryuji is the largest and most impressive temple in Arashiyama. Founded in 1339 at the beginning of the [Muromachi Period](e2134.html) (1338-1573), the temple is one of Kyoto's many [UNESCO World Heritage Sites](e2251.html). In addition to its temple buildings, there are attractive gardens with walking paths.
* 

  [Daikakuji Temple](e3964.html)

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 500 yen (600 yen combination ticket with [Gioji](#gioji))

  [Daikakuji](e3964.html) is a temple of the [Shingon sect](e2055.html) of Japanese Buddhism. Formerly the residence of an [emperor](e2135.html), the buildings were converted into a temple in 876. During its history the temple traditionally had members of the imperial family serve as the head priest. Beside the main temple buildings there is a large pond and a pagoda.
* 

  Jojakkoji Temple

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 500 yen

  This mountainside temple was founded in [1596](e2123.html). With small, attractive buildings and gates, the temple has a quiet and understated atmosphere. Maple trees and moss are located just beside the paths and stairs that lead across the temple grounds. From a number of spots, visitors can enjoy views over Kyoto.
* 

  Nisonin Temple

  Hours: 9:00 to 16:30  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 600 yen

  Similar to [Jojakkoji](#jojakkoji), Nisonin Temple is a hillside temple with slightly larger and imposing buildings. A generally understated atmosphere on the temple grounds is partly due to the overhanging trees along approach. Founded in the mid 9th century, Nisonin is a temple of the [Tendai sect](e2055.html). There are views over the city from the upper grounds.
* 

  Gioji Temple

  Hours: 9:00 to 16:50 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: January 1  
  Admission: 300 yen (600 yen combination ticket with [Daikakuji](e3964.html))

  Gioji is even more nestled into the forest than [Jojakkoji](#jojakkoji) and [Nisonin](#nisonin). It is known for its moss garden that is punctuated with maple trees. The temple's entrance gate and small main hall have thatched roofs. The latter has an attractive round window looking into the gardens.
* 

  Adashino Nenbutsuji Temple

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (until 16:00 from December to February)  
  Admission ends 30 minutes before closing.  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 500 yen

  Adashino Nenbutsuji is located at the end of the [Saga-Toriimoto Preserved Street](#sagatoriimoto). The temple was founded in the early 9th century when the famous monk [Kobo Daishi](e4900.html) placed stone statues for the souls of the dead here. Today, the temple grounds are covered by hundreds of such stone statues. In the back of the temple, a short path leads through a bamboo forest.
* 

  Otagi Nenbutsuji Temple

  Hours: 9:00 to 16:30 (entry until 16:15)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 400 yen

  Another ten minute walk north of the similarly named [Adashino Nenbutsuji](#nenbutsuji), the Otagi Nenbutsuji Temple is famous for its 1200 stone statues of rakan, devoted followers of Buddhism, each with a different facial expression. Created relatively recently in the 1980s and early 1990s, the many statues stand across the temple grounds which cover part of a forested mountain slope.

### Activities

* 

  [Sagano Scenic Railway](e3965.html)

  See the [Sagano Scenic Railway](e3966.html) page for hours and fares.

  The [Sagano Scenic Railway](e3965.html) runs seven kilometers from Arashiyama to nearby Kameoka, mostly alongside the pretty Hozu River. The trains travel at a speed of about 25 km/h during their 25 minute journey, so passengers can enjoy the scenery at a relaxed pace.
* 

  [Hozu River Boat Tour](e3966.html)

  See the [Hozu River Boat](e3966.html) page for hours and fees.

  Departing from near the JR Kameoka Station, the [Hozu River Boat Tour](e3966.html) is a leisurely two hour trip that takes passengers down the winding Hozu River to the Togetsukyo Bridge. The trip passes by the forested mountainsides along the river. The boats seat 25 people and are heated in the winter.
* 

  Cormorant Fishing (Ukai)

  Daily at 19:00 and 20:00 in July and August  
  Daily at 18:30 and 19:30 from September 1 to 23  
  Canceled if the river's water levels are high  
  Cost: 3000 yen for a 1-hour cruise

  The Hozu River in Arashiyama is one of about a dozen rivers in Japan where [ukai](e2426.html), a traditional fishing methods using cormorants, is practiced from July until late September. Tourists can observe the action from paid sightseeing boat cruises or from ashore. Cruises depart from the boat pier near the Togetsukyo Bridge.

### By Japan Railways (JR)

The fastest access from [Kyoto Station](e3922.html) to Arashiyama is provided by the JR Sagano Line (also known as JR Sanin Line). The one way ride to Saga-Arashiyama Station takes 15 minutes and costs 240 yen. From the station it is a 5-10 minute walk to central Arashiyama.

### By Keifuku Railway (Randen)

The small trains on the Keifuku Arashiyama Line connect Arashiyama with Omiya Station at the intersection of Shijo Street and Omiya Street in central Kyoto (20 minutes, 250 yen). Keifuku Railway also provides access to Kitanohakubaicho Station in northern Kyoto, not far from [Kinkakuji](e3908.html), [Ryoanji](e3909.html) and [Ninnaji](e3929.html) temples (20-30 minutes, 250 yen). One transfer of trains is required along the way. Keifuku Arashiyama Station is located in the very center of Arashiyama.

### By Hankyu Railway

From Kyoto-Kawaramachi or Karasuma Station in central Kyoto (Shijo Street), take the Hankyu Main Line to Katsura Station and transfer to the Hankyu Arashiyama Line for Arashiyama. The one way trip takes about 20 minutes and costs 240 yen. Hankyu Arashiyama Station is located on the opposite side of the river, about a 5-10 minute walk from central Arashiyama.

### By bus

[Bus](e2015.html) lines connect Arashiyama with several parts of Kyoto, however, it is recommended to access Arashiyama by train to avoid the risk of getting stuck in traffic jams.

### By car

Access by [car](e2024.html) is not recommended due to traffic congestion and difficult parking. However, travelers with a car who are interested in also visiting the mountainous [Takao](e3940.html) region, note that the Arashiyama Takao Parkway toll road connects Arashiyama with Takao (1800 yen one way).

[How to get to and around Kyoto](e2363.html)