---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3066.html
title: Sugamo
description: Visitor guide for Sugamo, a shopping district in Tokyo popular with the elderly.
keywords: sugamo, tokyo, shopping, jizo, street, koganji, kouganji, kougan, kogan, temple
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2841
char_count: 20050
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:59:07
---

Sugamo (巣鴨) is a shopping district along [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s [Yamanote Line](e2370.html) that famously caters to the elderly. The district's popular, 800 meter long **Jizo Dori shopping street** is also affectionately known as the "Old Ladies' Harajuku" in lighthearted comparison to the [Harajuku](e3006.html) district's status as one of Japan's foremost youthful shopping and fashion destinations.

The flat and handicap-[accessible](e2301.html) shopping street is lined by over 200 shops, which sell clothing, traditional food and other goods marketed toward the elderly. Among the most popular items is the district's signature red underwear, which comes in a variety of styles and is thought to bring luck to the wearer. Sugamo is also known for its [sweets](e2312.html), especially Shio-Daifuku, pounded rice cakes containing sweet bean paste and salt to moderate the sweetness.

The original reason for Sugamo's popularity is found at Koganji Temple halfway down the shopping street. The small [temple](e2058.html) is home to the popular **Arai Kannon** statue which is thought to help heal ailments. People line up in a queue to wash the statue with small hand towels which they then press to their ailing body part in hope of relief. Sugamo becomes particularly lively on the 4th, 14th and 24th of every month when the temple holds a small festival.

People wash the Arai Kannon statue in hope of relief of their ailments

The Jizo Dori shopping street begins a five minute walk northwest of Sugamo Station on the [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html) and Mita Subway Line.

### From Tokyo Station

Take the [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html) and get off at Sugamo Station (20 minutes, 180 yen).

### From Shinjuku Station

Take the [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html) and get off at Sugamo Station (13 minutes, 180 yen).

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)