---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3804.html
title: Futarasan Shrine
description: Visitor guide for Futarasan Shrine in the town center of Nikko.
keywords: nikko, futarasan, jinja, shrine
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1789
char_count: 12158
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:02:05
---

Futarasan Shrine (二荒山神社, Futarasan Jinja) stands next to [Toshogu](e3801.html) in central [Nikko](e3800.html). Much older than its more lavish neighbor, Futarasan Shrine was founded in 782 by Shodo Shonin, the Buddhist monk who introduced [Buddhism](e2055.html) to [Nikko](e3800.html) and who also founded nearby [Rinnoji Temple](e3803.html). Futarasan Shrine is dedicated to the [deities](e2056.html) of Nikko's three most sacred mountains: Mount Nantai, Mount Nyoho and Mount Taro. Futarasan is an alternate name of Mount Nantai, the most prominent of the three mountains.

The shrine grounds are mostly free to enter except for a small paid area to the left of the offering hall (haiden). The paid area features a small forested garden with a couple more halls, a spring, old sacred trees and closer views onto the main hall (honden) that stands behind the offering hall. Located one kilometer from the shrine grounds, the [Shinkyo Bridge](e3814.html) also belongs to Futarasan Shrine.

Two more Futarasan Shrines are located higher up in the mountains in nearby [Okunikko](e3818.html): one stands at the summit of Mount Nantai and the other at the northern shore of [Lake Chuzenji](e3806.html) at the mountain's base. The trail up Mount Nantai starts on the grounds of the latter.

Paid area

Futarasan Shrine stands about 200 meters west of [Toshogu](e3801.html), a 30-40 minute walk or 10 minute bus ride (350 yen one way, 600 yen day pass, covered by the [Nikko Passes](e2358_002.html)) from Tobu and JR Nikko stations.

[How to get to and around Nikko](e3805.html)