---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3025.html
title: Hama Rikyu
description: Visitor guide for Hama Rikyu Park in Tokyo.
keywords: hama rikyu, garden, park, hamarikyu, tokyo, japan
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2921
char_count: 20546
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:59:13
---

Hama Rikyu and the Shiodome District in the background

Hama Rikyu (浜離宮, Hama Rikyū), is a large, attractive [landscape garden](e2099.html) in central [Tokyo](e2164.html). Located alongside Tokyo Bay, Hama Rikyu features seawater ponds which change level with the tides, and a teahouse on an island where visitors can rest and enjoy the scenery. The traditionally styled garden stands in stark contrast to the skyscrapers of the adjacent [Shiodome](e3030.html) district.

The garden has served many purposes over the centuries. It was originally built as a feudal lord's Tokyo residence and duck hunting grounds during the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1867), but later served as a strolling garden and as an imperial detached palace before eventually being opened to the public in its current form. Vestiges of these old roles are still visible throughout the garden including several reconstructed duck hunting blinds and the remains of an old moat and reconstructed rock wall.

Hama Rikyu is attractive in any season. Although not as famous for its fall foliage as some of the [other gardens](e3034.html) around Tokyo, it offers plenty of maple, ginkgo and other trees that show their beautiful [autumn colors](e2014.html) between late November and early December.

Late February brings [plum blossoms](e2013.html), while the spring [cherry blossom season](e2011.html) from late March to early April is also nice but somewhat subdued compared to [other hanami spots in the city](e3050.html). Several other species of flowers bloom in spring including fields of peony and canola blossoms.

Hama Rikyu is a 10-15 minute walk from JR Shimbashi Station or a 5-10 minute walk from Shiodome Station on the Oedo Subway Line and the Yurikamome elevated train.

Hama Rikyu can also be accessed from [Asakusa](e3004.html) by a small number of [Tokyo Water Buses](e3042.html) (35 minutes, 1180 yen one way including admission into the garden), but note that the water buses do not stop at Hama Rikyu in the opposite direction, and that it is currently not possible to board boats at Hama Rikyu. It is only possible to get off.

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)