---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3053.html
title: Tokyo Shopping Guide
description: An introduction to Tokyo's shopping districts.
keywords: tokyo, shopping, shop, shops, strore, stores, fashion, electronics
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3713
char_count: 26425
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:46:55
---

Shinjuku

From cutting edge electronics to colorful [anime](e3052.html) goods, [traditional crafts](e639.html), trendy fashion and branded goods, [Tokyo](e2164.html) has a shop for practically anything one could ever want to buy - although not necessarily in your desired price range.

Tokyo's varied sightseeing districts double as [shopping](e2450.html) districts, many of them with their own character and specialties. The following is a general rundown of what to expect on the shopping scene of each district so you can familiarize and prepare yourself for a shopping spree in the big city.

Shibuya

#### [Shinjuku](e3011.html) - One of Tokyo's largest shopping and entertainment districts

Centered around [Shinjuku](e3011.html) Station, a major transportation hub and the busiest train station in the world, this district is home to half a dozen major department stores, including several flagship stores; as well as outlets of Japan's largest electronics retailers combined with a host of other shops and boutiques along its streets and underground shopping arcades.

#### [Shibuya](e3007.html) - Center of youth fashion

[Shibuya](e3007.html) is another large shopping district that is the birthplace of many of Japan's youth fashion trends. It is home to some well known, trend setting clothing stores such as Shibuya 109, as well as dozens of small fashion stores along its streets. Small boutiques, including high fashion and designer brands, continue to be found through to Aoyama and [Daikanyama](e3007_daikanyama.html) where the atmosphere is more subdued compared to the electric brightness of Shibuya.

Takeshita Dori in Harajuku

#### [Harajuku](e3006.html) - High fashion vs youth trends and counter culture

[Harajuku](e3006.html) has a split personality with two parallel shopping streets that cater to very different shoppers. Omotesando, known as Tokyo's Champs-Elysees, is a tree-lined avenue with upscale boutiques, cafes and several leading designer brand shops. Takeshita Dori, on the other hand, is a center of youth fashion and counter culture found along a narrow street crammed with shops and cafes targeting the younger, teenage crowd.

#### [Ginza](e3005.html) - Tokyo's premier upmarket shopping district

[Ginza](e3005.html) features high-end [department stores](e2072.html), boutiques and designer brand stores. Nearly every leading Japanese and international fashion brand has a presence here, as well as major electronics brands such as Sony and Apple. The shopping extends into the nearby [Yurakucho](e3072.html) area with more department stores, boutiques and electronic retailers.

Ginza

#### [Nihonbashi](e3033.html) - Historic merchant district featuring traditional goods and local foods

The [Nihonbashi](e3033.html) district served the capital as one of the leading centers of trade and commerce during the [Edo Period](e2128.html). It is the site of the flagship branch of Mitsukoshi, Japan's first [department store](e2072.html) and many smaller shops with centuries-long histories. Thanks to tasteful, recent redevelopment that built on the district's history, Nihonbashi will delight shoppers with an interest in traditional products and regional foods.

#### [Marunouchi](e3037.html) - Upscale shopping next to Tokyo Station

The [Marunouchi](e3037.html) district on the west side of Tokyo Station is a business district where many of largest companies have their headquarters. The lower floors of many of the office buildings along the central Nakadori avenue contain cafes, restaurants and an abundance of shops. Additional department stores and an underground mall can be found at nearby Tokyo Station.

#### [Ikebukuro](e3038.html) - Large department stores and electronics chains

[Ikebukuro](e3038.html) is another large shopping district centered around Ikebukuro Station, one of Japan's busiest train stations. Ikebukuro is a battleground between large department store groups including [Sunshine City](e3038.html#sunshine), Tokyo's first [city within a city](e3027.html). Ikebukuro also competes with [Akihabara](e3003.html) as an electronics center with the presence of big electronics retailers.

Nihonbashi

#### [Odaiba](e3008.html) - Shopping malls on a man-made island

[Odaiba](e3008.html) is a popular shopping and entertainment district built on a man-made island in Tokyo Bay. The island is a trendy date spot, and its [Aquacity](e3008.html#aqua), [Decks](e3008.html#decks) and [Diver City](e3008.html#diver) shopping malls cater to this crowd by mixing shopping with entertainment.

#### [Tokyo Solamachi](e3064_solamachi.html) - Shopping at the base of the Tokyo Skytree

Opened in 2012 at the base of the [Tokyo Skytree](e3064.html), the [Tokyo Solamachi](e3064_solamachi.html) is an exciting shopping and entertainment complex with over 300 shops and restaurants, including shops related to local Tokyo specialties and many unique souvenir shops.

Tokyo Solamachi

#### [Roppongi](e3031.html) - Upscale shopping in the middle of the city

The [Roppongi](e3031.html) district had a facelift with the opening of the [Roppongi Hills](e3031_hills.html) and [Tokyo Midtown](e3031_midtown.html) complexes which brought in hundreds of new upscale shopping and dining choices. Most shops specialize in fashion, accessories, household goods and interior design.

#### [Sugamo](e3066.html) - The Old Ladies' Harajuku

The shops along [Sugamo](e3066.html)'s popular 800 meter long Jizo Dori shopping street cater to an elderly clientele. The street is named after a beloved statue of the [Jizo Bodhisattva](e2055.html) that stands on the grounds of the local temple and is believed to have healing powers. The district is particularly lively on the 4th, 14th and 24th of every month when the temple holds a small festival.

Akihabara

In addition to the major shopping districts that carry a little of everything, [Tokyo](e2164.html) has several specialized shopping districts that focus on just one type of product such as electronics, books, music instruments or Buddhist altars:

#### [Akihabara](e3003.html) - Electronics mecca and center of Otaku culture

[Akihabara](e3003.html) is home to many electronics retailers such as Yodobashi Camera, Laox and Sofmap as well as hundreds of small discount electronics shops that are jammed along the district's streets and back alleys. Akihabara is also the center of Japan's burgeoning otaku culture with dozens of shops devoted to [anime, manga](e3052.html), collectibles and games.

#### [Kappabashi](e3020.html) - Restaurant supply and everything related to cooking (except food)

[Kappabashi](e3020.html) is a specialty district that caters to [restaurants](e2036.html). Found around Tawaramachi Station on the Ginza Subway line, not far from [Asakusa](e3004.html), the district's shops sell everything a restaurant needs (except for fresh food) including cookware, ceramic, earthenware, knives, furniture, and even the plastic and wax food samples found in restaurant displays.

Other **specialized shopping districts** found around [Tokyo](e2164.html) include Jimbocho, located north of the [Imperial Palace](e3017.html), which is known for a high concentration of book publishers and book stores; and Ochanomizu (one stop from Akihabara Station on the [JR Sobu Line](e2372.html)) which is a haven for shoppers looking for musical instruments and sports equipment.

Kappabashi

Popular **souvenir items** such as [yukata](e2103.html), kokeshi dolls and [woodblock prints](e2291.html) may be difficult to find in shopping areas geared toward Japanese shoppers, although large department stores usually carry a variety of traditional Japanese goods, typically at high quality and price levels.

More variety and lower prices are offered by souvenir shops found in districts popular among foreign tourists, such as [Asakusa](e3004.html), [Akihabara](e3003.html) and the [Tokyo Skytree](e3064.html). [Nakamise Dori](e3004.html#nakamise), the shopping street along the approach to [Sensoji Temple](e3001.html) in [Asakusa](e3004.html) offers a particularly wide selection of souvenirs.

Finally, **100 yen shops** sell lots of everyday items that make popular souvenirs such as [chopsticks](e2039.html), [sake](e2037_sake.html) cups, stationery, home decorations and other items, at an affordable 100 yen per item (plus [consumption tax](e2206.html)). [100 yen shops](e2077.html) can be found all over Tokyo.

Nakamise Dori in Asakusa

Those interested in **food markets** should head to the [Tsukiji Outer Market](e3021.html) which continues to sell fresh seafood and produce in the lively stalls that pack the district's narrow lanes despite the fact that the adjacent wholesale market closed in 2018.

**Flea markets** specializing in second hand goods are also held throughout Tokyo at some [temples](e2058.html), [shrines](e2059.html) and other public venues. They are usually held on Sundays, either every week or every other week, and usually have vendors selling second hand goods such as clothes, tools and antiques.

Tsukiji Outer Market


[Read our Tokyo Hotel Guide](/hotels/tokyo.html)