---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3104.html
title: Kenchoji Temple
description: Visitor guide for Kenchoji Temple in Kamakura.
keywords: kenchoji, temple, kamakura, zen
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1880
char_count: 12551
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:42:01
---

Kenchoji (建長寺, Kenchōji) is the number one of [Kamakura](e2166.html)'s five great Zen temples. The oldest Zen temple in Kamakura, Kenchoji was founded by the ruling regent [Hojo Tokiyori](e2133.html) in [1253](e2133.html) during the Kencho Era after which it was named. Its first head priest was a priest from China.

Although considerably smaller than during its heydays, Kenchoji still consists of a large number of temple buildings and subtemples, and stretches from the entrance gate at the bottom of the valley far into the forested hills behind. After passing through the **Sanmon** main gate, visitors will see Kenchoji's **temple bell** (Bonsho), designated a national treasure, on their right.

Sanmon, the main gate

The next structure is the **Butsuden** (Buddha Hall) which displays a statue of the Jizo Bodhisattva. Behind the Butsuden stands the **Hatto** (Dharma Hall), the largest wooden temple building in eastern Japan. It houses a statue of Kannon and has a dragon painted on its ceiling.

Kenchoji's main hall is the **Hojo**, which originally served as the head priest's residence, but is now used for various purposes. Visitors should not miss the [garden](e2099.html) behind the Hojo, which was designed by Zen master Muso Kokushi.

Zen garden behind the Hojo (Main Hall)

If you follow the path and stairways for another 15-20 minutes into the hills behind Kenchoji's main grounds, you will eventually arrive at the **Hansobo**, a [shrine](e2059.html) for the protection of Kenchoji. There you will also find a small observation deck from which [Mount Fuji](e2172.html) can be seen on days with good visibility.

If you climb even further (about another five minutes), you will reach a second observation deck with fine views over the entire temple grounds 100 meters below and the city of [Kamakura](e2166.html). From there starts the Tenen [hiking trail](e3113.html) through the northern hills of Kamakura, which leads to [Zuisenji Temple](e3110.html) and takes about one hour to complete.

View from the observation deck at the very top of Kenchoji's temple grounds

Kenchoji is a 15-20 minute walk from Kita-Kamakura Station on the JR Yokosuka Line, one station before Kamakura Station when coming from [Tokyo](e2164.html). It can also be reached in about a 15 minute walk from [Tsurugaoka Hachimangu Shrine](e3102.html).

[How to get to and around Kamakura](e3115.html)