---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3991.html
title: Kyoto to Amanohashidate\: How to get to and around Amanohashidate
description: Orientation and transportation in Amanohashidate.
keywords: amanohashidate, access, orientation, transportation, directions, get there, train, bus
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2236
char_count: 15186
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:13:53
---

From/To:

KyotoOsakaKinosaki OnsenTokyo

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)(except between Fukuchiyama and Amanohashidate)

Infrequent JR Hashidate [limited express](e2016.html) trains operate directly between [Kyoto](e2158.html) and [Amanohashidate](e3990.html) (2 hours, 4800-5400 yen one way depending on the day of travel). Alternatively, take a JR Kinosaki [limited express](e2016.html) train from [Kyoto](e2158.html) to Fukuchiyama (75 minutes, about 3050-3650 yen, hourly departures) and change to the Kyoto Tango Railway to [Amanohashidate](e3990.html) (40-60 minutes, 800-1750 yen depending on whether you use a local or limited express train). Note that seat reservations are mandatory on the Hashidate and Kinosaki limited express trains.

The entire journey is covered by the [JR Kansai Wide Area Pass](e2361_08.html), [JR Kansai Hokuriku Area Pass](e2361_kansai_hokuriku.html), [JR Kansai Hiroshima Area Pass](e2361_kansai_hiroshima.html) and some other [rail passes](e2357.html) by JR West; however the nationwide [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) is not valid on the Kyoto Tango Railway between Fukuchiyama and Amanohashidate.

Tankai Bus operates multiple [highway buses](e2366.html) per day between Kyoto Station and Amanohashidate. The one way trip takes about two hours and costs 3200 or 3400 yen depending on the date of travel. Online reservations can be made through [Willer](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/kyoto/kyoto/kyoto/miyazu/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184).

[Book Now](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/kyoto/kyoto/kyoto/miyazu/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184)

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

**Amanohashidate Station** is a short walk from the southern end of the roughly three kilometer long [sandbar](e3992.html). Because of the sandbar's considerable length, rental [bicycles](e2210.html) are a popular way to explore the area. They can be rented from shops and hotels around Amanohashidate Station for typically 500 yen for the first two hours and 300 yen per additional hour. With a bicycle, the attractions on the opposite side of the sandbar can be reached in about 15 minutes. Alternatively, it takes about 45 minutes to cross the sandbar on foot.

Sightseeing boats are another option for crossing the bay. They operate every 30 minutes between piers near [Chionji Temple](e3993.html) and [Motoise Kono Shrine](e3994.html). The one way ride takes about 12 minutes and cost 800 yen one way, while a round trip ticket costs 1300 yen.

The scenic village of [Ine](e3996.html) is located about 15 kilometers north of Amanohashidate, a 30 minute bus ride from the northern end or a 60 minute bus ride from the southern end of the sandbar.

There exist a few discount passes for visiting the Amanohashidate area. Below is one of the more interesting ones:

* **Amanohashidate Ine Sightseeing 2-day Pass (3500 yen)**
    
  This pass covers unlimited rides of local buses (including the bus to [Ine](e3996.html)), the cable car and chair lift to the [Kasamatsu Park](e3992.html), the sightseeing boats in Ine Bay and between Miyazu and Amanohashidate, and the bus to [Nariaji Temple](e3995.html) on two consecutive days. The pass can be purchased at the Amanohashidate tourist information desk. The pass costs only 3400 yen if purchased through [Klook](https://www.klook.com/activity/76788-kyoto-amanohashidate-ine-sightseeing-2-day-pass/), in which case an e-voucher needs to be exchanged to the physical ticket at the before-mentioned information desk.