---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3052.html
title: Tokyo Manga and Anime Guide
description: A list of anime-related sights in Tokyo.
keywords: tokyo, anime, animation, manga
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3619
char_count: 25953
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:58:27
---

A room at the [Tokiwaso Residence](#tokiwaso)

[Tokyo](e2164.html) is home to many [manga and anime](e2070.html)-related attractions and events:

### Shopping

* 

  [Akihabara](e3003.html)

  JR Akihabara Station  
  Hours: Store hours vary, typically 11:00 to 20:00

  [Akihabara](e3003.html) is the center of gaming, manga and anime culture in Japan. With its electronics shops, maid cafes and anime stores, it is a paradise for any self-proclaimed otaku.
* 

  [Nakano Broadway](e3069.html)

  JR Nakano Station  
  Hours: Store hours vary, typically 12:00 to 20:00

  [Nakano Broadway](e3069.html) is a shopping mall with a large concentration of stores specializing in anime goods, including numerous specialized branches of the Mandarake store. Items on offer include a wide selection of figures, toys and costumes.
* 

  [Tokyo Character Street](e3037.html)

  Inside Tokyo Station  
  Hours: 10:00 to 20:30

  Tokyo Character Street is a collection of about two dozen character-related shops on the first basement on the Yaesu side of [Tokyo Station](e3037.html). It includes a Jump Shop, Kamen Rider Store, Studio Ghibli shop, Pokemon Store and outlets of several TV stations.
* 

  [Shibuya Parco](e3007.html)

  5 minute walk from Shibuya Station  
  Hours: 11:00 to 21:00 (from 10:00 on weekends and [national holidays](e2062.html))

  The 6th floor of the Shibuya Parco shopping complex, known as Cyberspace Shibuya, is filled with shops loved by otaku, including a Nintendo store, Pokemon Center, Jump Shop and Capcom Store.
* 

  Pokemon Centers and Pokemon Stores

  Ikebukuro hours: 10:00 to 20:00  
  Lalaport hours: 10:00 to 20:00 (until 21:00 on weekends)  
  Skytree Town hours: 10:00 to 21:00  
  Nihonbashi Takashimaya hours: 10:30 to 21:00  
  Shibuya hours: 11:00 to 20:00 (from 10:00 on weekends)

  Selling all things Pokemon, like trading cards, stationery, toys and games, including some exclusive items. They also have areas for playing with Pokemon cards. There are five Pokemon Centers in Tokyo, one in [Nihonbashi](e3033.html)'s Takashimaya, one in [Ikebukuro](e3038.html)'s Sunshine City, one in the Lalaport Tokyo-Bay shopping mall in the eastern suburbs of Tokyo, one in [Tokyo Skytree Town](e3064_town.html) and one in the Parco building in [Shibuya](e3007.html). Additionally, there are Pokemon Stores at [Tokyo Station](e3037.html) and [Narita Airport](e2027.html). Unlike centers, stores do not have card playing areas.
* 

  DiverCity Tokyo Plaza

  5 minute walk from Daiba Station  
  Hours: 11:00 to 22:00 (from 10:00 on weekends and [public holidays](e2062.html))

  This shopping, dining and entertainment complex opened in 2012 in [Odaiba](e3008.html) and features attractions related to the Gundam [anime](e2070.html) series, including a large, "life-size" Gundam statue in front of the building and Gundam Base Tokyo, a shop dedicated to plastic models.

### Theme parks

* 

  Sanrio Puroland

  15 minute walk from Keio Tama Center Station  
  Hours: 10:00 to 17:00 (longer hours on weekends)  
  Closed: Irregularly on some Wednesdays and Thursdays  
  Admission: 3600-5300 yen depending on the day

  Centered around Sanrio's most famous creation, Hello Kitty, Sanrio Puroland is a theme park for younger children and features Hello Kitty's house, a boat ride and various theaters and live shows. There are also stores that sell Sanrio products.
* 

  Namja Town

  In Sunshine City in [Ikebukuro](e3038.html)  
  Hours: 10:00 to 21:00 (entry until 20:00)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 1000 yen (entry only), 3700 yen (entry and unlimited rides)

  Namja Town is an indoor theme park by Namco, the creator of Pacman and many other arcade games and leisure products. Namja Town includes various small rides and attractions. There are two food corners specialized in [gyoza](/r/e107.html) and desserts in a [Showa Period](e2129.html) town setting with recreated old alleys.

### Museums

* 

  [Ghibli Museum](e3041.html)

  20 minute walk from Mitaka Station  
  Requires advance reservations ([more details](e3041.html))

  The [Ghilbi Museum](e3041.html) is home to the favorite characters from Ghibli Studio films such as My Neighbor Totoro and Spirited Away. The museum features special animation exhibits and exclusive short films.
* 

  [Fujiko F. Fujiyo Museum (aka Doraemon Museum)](e3252.html)

  10 minute bus ride from Noborito Station  
  Requires advance reservations ([more details](e3252.html))

  The [Fujiko F. Fujio Museum](e3252.html), informally known as the Doraemon Museum, show the work of manga artist Fujiko F. Fujio, creator of the influential and long running Doraemon series. The museum features a short film, life sized characters, and original artwork from Doraemon and several of Fujiko F. Fujio's other series.
* 

  Tokiwaso Manga Museum

  5 minute walk from Ochiai-Minami-Nagasaki Station (Oedo Line)  
  Hours: 10:00 to 18:00 (entry until 17:30)  
  Closed: Mondays (or Tue if Mon is [national holiday](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission: few hundred yen during special exhibitions, free otherwise

  Tokiwaso is a reconstructed residence which once served as the home of multiple of Japan's most famous, early mangaka, including Tezuka Osamu, [Fujiko F. Fujio](#doraemon), Fujiko A. Fujio, and [Ishinomori Shotaro](e5032.html). It beautifully recreates the living spaces in the shared residence on the second floor and provides space for exhibitions on the ground floor.
* 

  Suginami Animation Museum

  25 minute walk from Ogikubo Station  
  Hours: 10:00 to 18:00 (entry until 17:30)  
  Closed: Mondays (or Tue if Mon is [national holiday](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission: Free

  This museum is located in Suginami City Ward, a center of anime production. It features hands-on activities such as a dubbing booth and a digital workshop where you can bring your own creations to life.
* 

  Toei Animation Museum

  15 minute walk from Oizumi Gakuen Station along the Seibu Ikebukuro Line  
  Hours: 11:00 to 16:00 (entry until 15:30)  
  Closed: Wednesdays, [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission: Free

  The Toei Animation Museum consists of a single, spacious exhibition room with a small number of displays. Toei is a leading producer of [anime](e2070.html) series and movies, including animated versions of popular [manga](e2070.html) such as Dragon Ball and Sailor Moon.
* 

  Tokyo Anime Center

  5 minute walk from Shibuya Station  
  Hours: 11:00 to 20:00 (entry until 19:30)  
  Closed: small number of irrgular closures  
  Admission: varies by exhibition, typically 0-1000 yen; entry to the shop is free

  Formerly located in [Akihabara](e3003.html) and then Ichigaya (as represented in the photo), the Tokyo Anime Center can now be found in the DNP Plaza in [Shibuya](e3007.html). Besides a shop featuring anime-related goods and an event space, the center hosts temporary exhibitions about works of anime.

### Events

* 

  [AnimeJapan](e3045.html)

  Late March  
  Venue: Tokyo Big Sight in [Odaiba](e3008.html)

  Formerly known as the Tokyo International Anime Fair, [AnimeJapan](e3045.html) is the world's largest anime exhibition. It is held every spring at Tokyo Big Sight in [Odaiba](e3008.html). In addition to the traditional trade fair, there are stage exhibitions, film showings and award ceremonies.
* 

  Comiket

  Twice a year in late December and mid August  
  Venue: Tokyo Big Sight in [Odaiba](e3008.html)

  Comiket (an abbreviation of Comic Market) is the world's largest comic convention and is held twice a year, once in winter and again in summer, at Tokyo Big Sight in [Odaiba](e3008.html). It is the premier place to purchase dojinshi (self-published or unofficial works) and rare or limited items.