---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3028.html
title: Yebisu Garden Place
description: Visitor guide for Yebisu Garden Place in Tokyo.
keywords: yebisu, ebisu, garden, place, beer, museum, tokyo
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2837
char_count: 20038
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:57:18
---

Yebisu Garden Place (恵比寿ガーデンプレイス) is one of [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s many pleasant [cities within the city](e3027.html). Consisting of roughly a dozen buildings and skyscrapers, it features a large array of [restaurants](e2036.html) and shops, the [Westin Tokyo](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/the-westin-tokyo.html?aid=371183) hotel, the Michelin 3-star Chateau Restaurant Joel Robuchon, offices, residential space and a [photography museum](e3054_art.html#photo).

Yebisu Garden Place is built on the former site of a [beer](e2037_beer.html) brewery, where the still existing Yebisu Beer brand had been brewed since 1890. Interestingly, it was the beer brand which gave the later developing town and railway station of Ebisu\* its name, and not the other way around.

Center square with Chateau Restaurant Joel Robuchon in the background

Opened in April 2024, the **Yebisu Brewery Tokyo** is a small brewery and museum with exhibits about the history and science of beer brewing in Japan. The museum can be entered for free, while beer produced exclusively here can be purchase and tasted at the tap room. Paid guided tours of the museum are also available, but held only in Japanese. There is also a shop.

\* "Ebisu" is the modern way to write "Yebisu", as the syllable "ye" and corresponding [kana](e2047.html) characters have almost completely disappeared from the modern Japanese language and been replaced by the "e".

Yebisu Brewery Tokyo

Yebisu Garden Place is a five minute walk from the east exit of Ebisu Station, one station south of Shibuya Station on the [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html). It is connected with the station by the well marked "Yebisu Skywalk".

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)