---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3352.html
title: Urakuen (Joan Tea Ceremony House)
description: Visitor guide for Urakuen, a Japanese garden in Inuyama which features Joan, one of Japan's most celebrated teahouses.
keywords: urakuen, uraku, garden, joan, jo-an, tea, ceremony, teahouse, inuyama
content_type: attraction
word_count: 339
char_count: 2449
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:21:40
---

Shodenin Shoin Study Room (left) and Joan Teahouse (right)

Urakuen (有楽苑) is a [Japanese garden](e2099.html) in [Inuyama](e3350.html), just to the east of [Inuyama Castle](e3351.html). It is the site of Joan, one of Japan's most celebrated [teahouses](e2096.html) and a designated national treasure.

Joan was originally built in 1618 as part of a [temple](e2058.html) complex in [Kyoto](e2158.html) alongside a study room called Shodenin Shoin. It was built by Oda Uraku, a younger brother of the great [Oda Nobunaga](e2123.html) and a disciple of Sen-no-Rikyu, Japan's most famous [tea ceremony](e2096.html) master.

A look inside Joan

In 1972, the study and the teahouse were moved from [Kyoto](e2158.html) to its present location in Urakuen, which was named after Oda Uraku. Today, visitors to this serene landscape [garden](e2099.html) can view both Shodenin Shoin and Joan from the outside.

Also located at Urakuen's tranquil precincts are a bamboo grove and the Koan [teahouse](e2096.html) where visitors can enjoy tea and sweets for an additional fee. Usually in the second half of November, the garden's lush greenery offers some nice [autumn colors](e2014.html).

Japanese green tea and an accompanying snack

Urakuen is located at the foot of [Inuyama Castle](e3351.html). The garden is a ten minute walk from Inuyama-Yuen Station or a 15 minute walk from Inuyama Station. The entrance to the garden is located beside the car park of Hotel Indigo Inuyama Urakuen Garden.

[How to get to and around Inuyama](e3354.html)