---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3969.html
title: Enkoji Temple
description: Visitor guide for Enkoji Temple, a temple of the Rinzai Zen Sect, located close to the Shugakuin Imperial Villa.
keywords: enkoji, temple, kyoto, rinzai, zen, sect
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3266
char_count: 22684
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:44:41
---

Enkoji viewed from the hill behind its garden

Enkoji (圓光寺, Enkōji) is a [temple](e2058.html) of the Rinzai [Zen Sect](e2055.html), situated in northern [Kyoto](e2158.html) close to the [Shugakuin Imperial Villa](e3936.html). It is famous for its [autumn colors](e2014.html) which usually peak in late November.

Enkoji was founded in 1601 by [Tokugawa Ieyasu](e2128.html), the [shogun](e2127.html) who brought about the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868). The temple also served as a school that was open to the common public. Enkoji's principal object of worship is a statue of the thousand-armed Kannon Bodhisattva.

In its courtyard, Enkoji has a beautiful [garden](e2099.html) with a pond and many [maple trees](e2014_trees.html). It provides lovely views of greenery in summer and stunning [fall colors](e2014.html) in autumn. Do not miss the short climb up the hill behind the [garden](e2099.html), from where a bird's eye view of the [temple](e2058.html) and the city can be seen. Another feature of the garden is an underground water basin that allows visitors to appreciated the delicate sound of dripping water.

Viewing the garden in autumn

Enkoji Temple is located northeast of central Kyoto. It can be reached on foot in about 15 minutes from Shugakuin or Ichijoji Station along the Eizan Railways or in about 20 minutes from the [Shugakuin Imperial Villa](e3936.html).

### By train

From [Kyoto Station](e3922.html), take the JR Nara Line to Tofukuji Station, transfer to the Keihan Main Line and alight at the final stop Demachiyanagi Station. From there, take the Eizan Railways to Ichijoji Station. The whole trip takes about 40 minutes and costs 670 yen one way.

### By bus

Take [bus](e2015.html) number 5 from [Kyoto Station](e3922.html) to the Ichijoji Sagarimatsucho (一乗寺下り松町) bus stop. The bus ride takes about 50 minutes and costs 230 yen one way. From the bus stop, the temple can be reached in a 5-10 minute walk.

[How to get to and around Kyoto](e2363.html)