---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3933.html
title: Kurama
description: Visitor guide for Kurama, a rural district of Kyoto City.
keywords: kurama, kyoto, kurumadera, onsen
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3268
char_count: 22711
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:42:50
---

Kurama (鞍馬) is a rural town in the northern mountains of [Kyoto City](e2158.html), less than one hour from the city center. Kurama's main attraction, **Kuramadera**, is a Buddhist [temple](e2058.html) located along the steep wooded mountainside above the town.

It takes 30-45 minutes to climb to the temple's main buildings from the town below. A cablecar (200 yen one way) leads about halfway up the mountain. Along the ascent stands Yuki Jinja, a [shrine](e2059.html) famous for its Fire Festival (Kurama Hi Matsuri), held annually on October 22.

Along the hiking trail from Kurama to Kibune

Kuramadera's main buildings stand on a terrace on the mountain slope, overlooking the wooded valley. Behind the [temple](e2058.html)'s main building, the **hiking trail** continues through the forest past several other temple structures to [Kibune](e3967.html), a small town in the neighboring valley. The hike from Kuramadera to Kibune takes about one hour and is steep at times.

Kurama is also known for one of the most easily accessible [hot springs](e2292.html) from Kyoto, **Kurama Onsen**. The complex closed during the pandemic, but finally reopened in November 2024. Located at the upper end of the town of Kurama, a 10 minute walk from the train station, the complex offers [indoor and outdoor baths](e2292_types.html).

The outdoor bath at Kurama Onsen before the pandemic

Kurama is connected with central [Kyoto](e2158.html) by Eizan Railway. The one way trip along the Eizan Kurama Line from Demachi-Yanagi Station to Kurama Station takes 30 minutes and costs 470 yen. Trains depart every 15-20 minutes.

The fastest way to reach Demachi-Yanagi Station from [Kyoto Station](e3922.html) is by taking the JR Nara Line to Tofukuji Station (150 yen, 2 minutes), where you can transfer to the Keihan Main Line to Demachi-Yanagi Station (300 yen, 10 minutes).

[How to get to and around Kyoto](e2363.html)