---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3045.html
title: AnimeJapan 2025
description: About the AnimeJapan (formerly Tokyo International Anime Fair) convention held at Tokyo Big Sight.
keywords: anime, japan, tokyo, international, fair, show, convention, big, sight, site, odaiba, animejapan
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2848
char_count: 20136
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:58:59
---

**AnimeJapan 2026 is scheduled to be held March 28-31.**
  
March 30-31 will be business days for registered members of the industry and media.

AnimeJapan (formerly known as Tokyo International Anime Fair) is an annual tradeshow held at [Odaiba](e3008.html)'s Big Sight convention center. It is the premier convention of the Japanese animation industry and one of the largest animation related events in the world. AnimeJapan is attended by several hundred Japanese and foreign TV and film production companies, as well as toy, game and software developers.

Exhibits from a previous year

The majority of the floor space at Tokyo Big Sight is devoted to exhibition space featuring numerous booths by Japanese production companies, such as Toei Animation, Bandai Namco and Tezuka Productions, as well as foreign companies from around the world. Larger booths feature their own theaters and stages, and host live shows and special appearances by anime and manga creators as well as character actors that voice the parts.

Various performances, interviews and announcements will be held at the exhibition's event stages, some of which require reservations. Another area is devoted to cosplaying where tradeshow visitors are encouraged to show off their cosplay outfits. Other attractions include anime-related workshops and seminars, anime goods shops and a food park.

Exhibits from a previous year

Tokyo Big Sight is located on [Odaida](e3008.html) in Tokyo. It is a few steps from Tokyo Big Sight Station on the Yurikamome Line or a five minute walk from Kokusai-Tenjijo Station on the Rinkai Line.

[How to get to Odaiba](e3008.html#section_get_there)