---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3030.html
title: Shiodome
description: Visitor guide for Shiodome, a modern city district of Tokyo.
keywords: shiodome, shiosite, siosite, tokyo
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3123
char_count: 22472
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:00:27
---

Shiodome (汐留) is a redeveloped city district in [Tokyo](e2164.html), which opened to the public in 2002. Its spectacular skyscrapers accommodate many offices, the headquarters of Nippon Television and a large variety of shops, cafes, [restaurants](e2036.html), theaters, [hotels](e2025.html) and other attractions.

Shiodome was originally a tidal marshland separating the [Imperial Palace](e3017.html) from Tokyo Bay. During the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868), the marshes were dried up and developed into residential land for feudal lords. The district's history remains reflected in the name Shiodome, which literally means "halt the tides".

In 1872, Shiodome was chosen as the site of [Shimbashi Station](#station), the Tokyo terminal of Japan's first [railway](e2019.html) line. When the railway tracks were later extended to [Tokyo Station](e3037.html), Shimbashi Station was moved to its current location and Shiodome was converted into a freight yard, which it remained into the 1980s. Today the district features modern city planning with divided motorized and pedestrian traffic on different levels, and elevated walkways and underground passages that connect most of the buildings.

* 

  Caretta Shiodome

  Shops: typically 10:00 to 20:00  
  Restaurants: typically 11:00 to 23:00

  Caretta Shiodome is a shopping, dining and entertainment complex, located in the elegant 51-story Dentsu Building, the headquarters of Japan's leading advertising company Dentsu. Caretta features a musical theater, a [museum on advertising](#admuseum) and a range of shops and [restaurants](e2036.html), including the "sky restaurants" on the top floors.
* 

  Shiodome City Center

  Shops: typically 10:00 to 20:00  
  Restaurants: typically 11:00 to 23:30

  Shiodome City Center is a 42 floor office building that is headquarters to some major Japanese companies such as All Nippon Airways and Fujitsu. The building's lower floors are filled with shops and restaurants while the top two floors house elegant restaurants with beautiful views over Tokyo.
* 

  Nippon TV Tower

  Shops: typically 10:30 to 18:30  
  Restaurants: typically 11:00 to 22:00

  Nippon Television Tower (Nittele Tower) is the headquarters of Nippon Television, one of Japan's private, nationwide television networks, and home to programs such as the Anpanman cartoons. A NTV goods shop and an Anpanman shop are found here along with a few restaurants and cafes.
* 

  Italian Town

  Italian Town is made up of a couple of city blocks on the opposite side of the train tracks from the rest of Shiodome. Vaguely resembling an Italian neighborhood, the district is home to a number of restaurants, cafes and small shops and fashion boutiques, as well as Wins Shiodome, a modern facility for off-track horse race betting.
* 

  [Hama Rikyu](e3025.html)

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: December 29 to January 1  
  Admission: 300 yen

  Located just next to Shiodome, [Hama Rikyu](e3025.html) is one of Tokyo's most attractive [gardens](e2099.html), formerly part of a feudal lord's residence. As the garden is located alongside Tokyo Bay, its ponds are filled with sea water and change level with the tides. The garden also features former duck hunting grounds, forested areas and a teahouse.

### Museums and showrooms

* 

  Former Shimbashi Station Building

  Hours: 10:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:45)  
  Closed: Mondays (or Tuesday if Monday is a [holiday](e2062.html)), Dec 29 to Jan 3  
  Admission: Free

  Shiodome was the site of the Tokyo terminal of Japan's first [railway](e2019.html) line, which was opened in 1872 between [Tokyo](e2164.html) and [Yokohama](e2156.html). A replica of the former station building and platform stands next to the [Shiodome City Center](#citycenter). It houses a small museum about the history of the station and Shiodome in general with English explanations.
* 

  Panasonic Living Showroom

  Hours: 10:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: Wednesdays, [Obon](e2286.html) and [New Year](e2276.html)  
  Admission: Free

  Panasonic is one of Japan's leading producers not only of electronic appliances but also of home interior products such as sinks, faucets, bathtubs, [toilets](e2003.html), counters, doors and entire kitchens, living rooms and bathrooms. The Tokyo showroom in Shiodome showcases the company's home interior products on multiple floors.

Shiodome is connected to Shimbashi Station on the [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html), [JR Keihin-Tohoku Line](e2371.html) and the Asakusa and Ginza subway lines as well as Shiodome Station on the Oedo Subway Line and the Yurikamome, an elevated train to [Odaiba](e3008.html).

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)