---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3034_003.html
title: Koishikawa Korakuen
description: Visitor guide for Koishikawa Korakuen, a traditional Japanese garden in central Tokyo.
keywords: Koishikawa, Korakuen, garden, tokyo
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2889
char_count: 20432
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:57:57
---

Koishikawa Korakuen (小石川後楽園, Koishikawa Kōrakuen) is one of [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s oldest and best [Japanese gardens](e2099.html). It was built in the early [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1600-1868) at the Tokyo residence of the [Mito](e6200.html) branch of the ruling Tokugawa family. Like its [namesake](e5701.html) in [Okayama](e5700.html), the garden was named Korakuen after a poem encouraging a ruler to enjoy pleasure only after achieving happiness for his people. Koishikawa is the district in which the garden is located in.

Like most traditional [Japanese gardens](e2099.html), Koishikawa Korakuen attempts to reproduce famous landscapes in miniature, using ponds, stones, trees and man-made hills to replicate both Japanese and Chinese scenery. A network of walking trails leads around to prescribed viewpoints from which visitors are meant to view the garden, which despite the relatively unobtrusive modern backdrop of [Tokyo Dome](e3039.html) and other buildings in the distance, remains a beautiful natural escape from urban Tokyo.

Koishikawa Korakuen is attractive throughout the year, but is especially so in late November and early December during the [fall color](e2014.html) season. Dozens of maple trees are planted around the garden's three ponds which turn vibrant shades of orange and red. There is also a small grove of [ginkgo trees](e2014_trees.html) near the east entrance, which turn a golden yellow during autumn.

The garden is also nice during the [plum season](e2013.html) from mid February through March and during the [cherry blossom season](e2011.html) which usually takes place in late March and early April and features several early blooming [weeping cherry](e2011_species.html) trees around the garden's west entrance. A rice field can also be found toward the rear of the garden.

Koishikawa Korakuen has an east and a west entrance. The east entrance is located a 3 minute walk from **Suidobashi Station** along the [JR Chuo Line](e2372.html) (local, yellow trains only), while the west entrance is a 5-10 minute walk from **Iidabashi** Station along the JR Chuo Line (local, yellow trains only) and the Tozai, Yurakucho, Namboku and Oedo subway lines; or a 10 minute walk from **Korakuen** Station along the Marunouchi and Namboku subway lines.

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)