---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3700.html
title: Hirosaki Castle Park
description: Visitor information for Hirosaki Castle in northern Japan.
keywords: hirosaki, castle, hirosakijo, sakura, cherry, blossom, hanami
content_type: attraction
word_count: 478
char_count: 3466
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:49:53
---

Hirosaki Castle (弘前城, Hirosakijō) was built in [1611](e2128.html) by the Tsugaru Clan. A three-story [castle](e2296.html) tower, fortified moats, castle gates and some corner turrets (yagura) survive or were reconstructed. The castle is located in Hirosaki Park, a spacious public park of about 0.6 square kilometers.

The castle's original five-story keep burnt down in 1627 after being struck by lightning. Rebuilt in 1810, the present three-story keep is the only one in the [Tohoku Region](/list/e1102.html) that was not rebuilt in the modern era, amongst only a handful in all of Japan.

Construction Notice:

Renovation works on the castle's stone walls have been ongoing at Hirosaki Castle since 2013. In a unique procedure, the castle keep was moved by about 70 meters to enable renovation works on its foundation and the surrounding stone walls. The castle keep is expected to be moved back to its original location in autumn 2026 and the renovation works fully completed by spring 2028.

West Moat

Hirosaki Park is one of Japan's best [cherry blossom](e2011.html) spots. With its abundance of over 2500 trees, cherry blossom tunnels, petal-filled moats, numerous pleasant picnic areas, rental rowing boats, many varieties of cherry trees and illuminations in the evenings, it feels like multiple great cherry blossom spots combined into a single one. A festival is held annually from April 23 to May 5, when the blossoms are usually in bloom.

There are a few other sites of interest inside Hirosaki Park, including the Hirosaki Castle Botanical Garden in the park's southeast corner and Gokoku Shrine, the [Aomori](/list/e1202.html) branch of [Yasukuni Shrine](e2321.html) in the north end of the park. Most of the city's other tourist attractions are also located within walking distance of the park.

Petal-filled castle moat

Hirosaki Park is located a 15 minute bus ride west of JR Hirosaki Station by the [Dotemachi Loop Bus](e3702.html#section_orientation). Get off at Shiyakusho-mae bus stop.

[How to get to and around Hirosaki](e3702.html)