---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3074.html
title: Kanda
description: Visitor guide for Kanda, a central city district of Tokyo.
keywords: kanda, tokyo, myojin, akihabara, jimbocho, ochanomizu, yushima
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3191
char_count: 22647
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:00:38
---

Kanda Myojin Shrine

Kanda (神田) is a city district of [Tokyo](e2164.html), northeast of the [Tokyo Imperial Palace](e3017.html). It is not a prime tourist district but more of a typical local district with residential areas and numerous universities. Kanda has traditionally been an academic center and is therefore frequented by young people. It used to be the site of a [Confucian](e2300.html) school which is survived by the [Yushima Seido](#seido), a shrine dedicated to the great Chinese philosopher.

Nevertheless, the district offers several interesting neighborhoods, such as the Ochanomizu musical instrument area, the Jimbocho book area and the famous electronics and [anime](e2070.html) mecca [Akihabara](e3003.html). Kanda is also home to the Kanda Myojin Shrine and its [Kanda Festival](e3073.html), one of [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s three most important [festivals](e2063.html).

### Places of interest

* 

  Kanda Myojin Shrine

  Hours: Always open  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free

  Kanda Myojin Shrine enshrines three deities: Daikokuten - the god of good harvest and matrimony, Ebisu - the god of fishermen and businessmen, and Taira Masakado - a popular rebel lord of the 10th century. People visit the shrine to pray for prosperity. The [Kanda Festival](e3073.html), reputedly one of the three great [festivals](e2063.html) of Japan, is the festival of the Kanda Myojin Shrine.
* 

  Yushima Seido

  Hours: 9:30 to 17:00 (until 16:00 in winter)  
  Closed: August 13-17 and December 29-31  
  Admission: Free (200 yen to enter the main hall on weekends)

  Yushima Seido is a shrine dedicated to the Chinese scholar Confucius. [Confucianism](e2300.html) was the state philosophy of the later [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868), and the shrine used to be part of a Confucian school. The shrine buildings are covered in black laquer, making for a unique, striking appearance. The shrine grounds are open everyday and also feature a bronze statue of Confucius. The interior of the main hall, however, is open only on weekends and [national holidays](e2062.html).
* 

  Yushima Tenjin Shrine

  Hours: 6:00 to 20:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free

  Yushima Tenjin Shrine is located just five minutes on foot southwest of [Ueno Park](e3019.html)'s Shinobazu Pond. Like all Tenjin [shrines](e2059.html), Yushima Tenjin is dedicated to Sugawara Michizane, the deity of scholarship. Around February and March each year, the shrine holds a plum festival to celebrate the blooming of its many [plum trees](e2013.html).
* 

  Nikolai-do (Saint Nicolai Church)

  Hours: Saturdays and Sundays between 13:00 and 16:00  
  Admission: 300 yen donation

  Nikolai-do is the main cathedral of the Japanese Orthodox Church. The current building was reconstructed in 1929 after the original 19th century building had been seriously damaged in the [1923 Great Kanto Earthquake](/a/earthquake/). Nikolai-do has been popular since the [Meiji Period](e2130.html) for its Russian architecture featuring a dome roof and a bell tower.
* 

  Ochanomizu Music Instrument Avenue

  Hours: Typically 11:00 to 20:00 (a little shorter on Sundays)  
  Closed: Varies by store

  The Ochanomizu Music Instrument Avenue is located just south of Ochanomizu Station. For approximately 500 meters it is lined by stores selling musical instruments and music-related items.
* 

  Jimbocho Book Town

  Hours: Typically 10:00 to 18:30  
  Closed: Many shops close on Sundays and [national holidays](e2062.html)

  The neighborhood of Jimbocho offers a large concentration of bookstores selling the latest titles as well as old or second hand books. The bookstores lend a scholarly atmosphere to Jimbocho, where a laid-back afternoon may also be spent at one of the several cafes in the area.

**Ochanomizu Station** on the [JR Chuo Line](e2372.html), JR Sobu Line and Marunouchi Subway Line is the closest station to most of the places of interest. It can be reached by JR Chuo Line from Tokyo Station in 5 minutes and 150 yen or from Shinjuku Station in 10 minutes and 180 yen.

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)