---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3882.html
title: Yunishigawa Onsen Travel Guide
description: Visitor guide for the remote hot spring town of Yunishigawa Onsen.
keywords: yunishigawa, yunishikawa, onsen, hot, spring, springs, spa, heike, sato, heike no sato, kamakura, festival, snow, matsuri
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2052
char_count: 13343
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:36:17
---

Yunishigawa during the Kamakura Festival

Yunishigawa Onsen (湯西川温泉) is a small [hot spring](e2292.html) town in a remote valley in the mountains of [Tochigi Prefecture](/list/e1210.html), about an hour [bus](e2015.html) ride deeper into the mountains from [Kinugawa Onsen](e3875.html).

The town was founded after the [Taira clan](e2132.html) (also known as the Heike clan) was defeated by the [Minamoto clan](e2132.html) (also known as the Genji clan) for political supremacy over Japan towards the end of the [Heian Period](e2132.html) (710 - 1185), and many members of the Taira clan fled into hiding in remote regions of Japan. Yunishigawa was one such hidden settlement of Taira refugees.

Heike no Sato open air museum

Strict rules were maintained to keep the town from being discovered, such as bans on chicken (because of their crowing) and koinobori streamers (because the colorful streamers could be easily seen from a distance). Interestingly, some of these bans are still observed today, despite the fact that the town has long been put onto the map. An [open air museum](e2421.html), the **Heike no Sato**, exhibits about a dozen old homes, which illustrate the past everyday life of villagers.

Thanks to its [hot springs](e2292.html), Yunishigawa Onsen has turned into a tourist destination in more recent times, and the town offers multiple [lodgings](e2025.html), ranging from rustic [ryokan](e2029.html) to large hotels. Several of the lodgings include dinners of local cuisine served around a fireplace (irori).

Dinner is served around a fireplace (irori)

Yunishigawa receives a fair amount of [snow](e2265.html) in the winter, attracting visitors with river lined outdoor baths surrounded by snow. An even more popular winter attraction is the **Yunishigawa Kamakura Festival** ("Yunishigawa Snow House Festival"), during which hundreds of snow houses (kamakura) of different sizes are built and illuminated in the evenings around town and along the river.

The Yunishigawa Kamakura Festival is held every year around February (January 30 to March 1, 2026) on multiple sites across the town. The main site is the Heike no Sato, which features snow houses and is lit up in the evenings until 21:00. A nearby riverside site features lots of mini snow houses and is illuminated on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays. Various outdoor activities can be enjoyed at other sites.

Snow houses in the forest during the Kamakura Festival

Yunishigawa Onsen can be reached by [buses](e2015.html) from [Kinugawa Onsen](e3875.html) Station (one hour, 2050 yen one way) every 1-2 hours. Alternatively, you can take the train as far as Yunishigawa Onsen Station and board the bus from there (25 minutes, 1050 yen one way). Yunishigawa Onsen Station is somewhat special as its platform is located inside a tunnel, and the station complex features a [public bath](e2074.html) fed by [hot spring](e2292.html) waters.

[How to get to and around Kinugawa Onsen](e3876.html)