---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3353.html
title: Meiji Mura
description: Visitor guide for Meiji Mura, an open air museum about Japan's Meiji Period.
keywords: meiji, mura, inuyama, nagoya, open-air, museum
content_type: attraction
word_count: 415
char_count: 2948
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:05:35
---

Entrance hall of the old Imperial Hotel

Meiji Mura (明治村, meaning "Meiji Village") is one of Japan's best [open air museums](e2421.html), displaying over 60 buildings from the [Meiji Period](e2130.html) (1868-1912). This era followed the end of Japan's [feudal age](e2128.html), and its [architecture](e2111.html) is characterized by a strong influx of Western architecture.

The [theme park](e2067.html)-like museum is located in [Inuyama](e3350.html), one hour outside of [Nagoya](e2155.html), in a vast wooded area next to Iruka Pond. It takes at least half a day to explore the spacious museum grounds and cover all of its exhibits.

Meiji Period outfits are also available for rent to walk around in

Few of the buildings constructed in the [Meiji Period](e2130.html) survive in Japan today, as most of them were destroyed during the war or lost to city redevelopment. A collection of representative buildings from across the country have been relocated to Meiji Mura in order to preserve the period's architectural and cultural heritage. Among them are the entrance hall of [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s old Imperial Hotel and [Kyoto](e2158.html)'s St. Francis Xavier's Cathedral.

Other attractions include the former [Kanazawa](e2167.html) Prison, [Sapporo](e2163.html)'s telephone exchange, [Mie](/list/e1225.html)'s prefectural office, [Nagasaki](e2162.html)'s foreign settlement, as well as hospitals, [sake](e2037_sake.html) breweries and schools. Some buildings have been converted into cafes, candy stores or traditional game stalls for visitors to enjoy. There is also a village bus which runs the length of the village, as well as a tram and a steam locomotive.

Village bus traveling across a bridge

Meiji Mura is located in [Inuyama](e3350.html), about one hour outside of [Nagoya](e2155.html).

From Nagoya Station, take the Meitetsu Inuyama Line to Inuyama Station (30 minutes, 630 yen one way) and transfer to a Meitetsu bus to Meiji Mura (20 minutes, 500 yen, 1-2 departures per hour). The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) is not valid on Meitetsu trains and buses.

[How to get to and around Inuyama](e3354.html)