---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3967.html
title: Kibune
description: Visitor guide for Kibune, a rural district of Kyoto City.
keywords: kibune, kifune, kyoto, shrine, kawadoko
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3430
char_count: 23577
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:44:53
---

The entrance to Kifune Shrine

Kibune (貴船) is a small town in a forested valley in the northern mountains of [Kyoto City](e2158.html), which developed around **Kifune Shrine**. According to legend, a goddess traveled in a boat from [Osaka](e2157.html) all the way up the river into the mountains north of Kyoto, and Kifune Shrine was built at the site where her boat journey had come to an end.

Kifune Shrine is dedicated to the god of water and rain and believed to be the protector of those at sea. Here you can obtain a unique type of fortune written on paper slips ([omikuji](e2059.html)) that reveal their messages when dipped into water. **Okunomiya**, the inner sanctum and original site of Kifune Shrine, lies about one kilometer further up the valley. It has a large rock, known as the boat stone, which is said to be where the goddess' yellow boat is buried.

Kifune Shrine - Okunomiya

The rest of the town is made up by traditional styled [ryokan](e2029.html) and restaurants that line the narrow road for a few hundred meters parallel to Kibune River. It is a popular retreat from Kyoto's famed summer heat, but is also well visited in [autumn](e2014.html) when the leaves change.

From June to September, Kibune's restaurants build covered platforms out over the river where visitors can enjoy a meal as the water flows beneath them. Known as [kawadoko](e3963.html), dining on the platforms is a relaxing experience and an excellent way to escape the summer heat. Most restaurants serve [kaiseki meals](e2348.html) that range in price from 3,000 to 20,000 yen per person. Reservations are recommended in the evenings and on busy days.

A [hiking](e2427.html) trail to [Kurama-dera](e3933.html), a mountain temple in neighboring [Kurama](e3933.html), starts from Kibune on the opposite side of the river from the road. The admission fee for the temple (500 yen) is paid at the trailhead. From there it is about a one hour hike up the occasionally steep trail to the temple's main buildings and a further 30 minutes to the town below.

Kawadoko dining on platforms built over the river

Kibune is connected with central [Kyoto](e2158.html) by Eizan Railway. The one way trip along the Eizan Kurama Line from Demachi-Yanagi Station to Kibune-guchi Station takes 30 minutes and costs 470 yen. Trains depart every 15-20 minutes. From Kibune-guchi Station, it is a further five minute bus ride (200 yen one way, departures timed to the trains) or a 20-30 minute walk up the road to Kifune Shrine.

The fastest way to reach Demachi-Yanagi Station from [Kyoto Station](e3922.html) is by taking the JR Nara Line to Tofukuji Station (150 yen, 2 minutes), where you can transfer to the Keihan Main Line to Demachi-Yanagi Station (280 yen, 10 minutes).

[How to get to and around Kyoto](e2363.html)