---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3941.html
title: Shimogamo and Kamigamo Shrines
description: Visitor guide for Kamigamo and Shimogamo, ancient shrines in Kyoto.
keywords: kamigamo, shimogamo, kamo, shrine, shrines, kyoto, japan
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3293
char_count: 22979
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:43:20
---

Shimogamo Shrine

The Kamo Shrines, Shimogamo Shrine and Kamigamo Shrine, are both recognized as [UNESCO World Heritage Sites](e2251.html). They are two of the most important and oldest [shrines](e2059.html) in [Kyoto](e2158.html).

In fact, the Kamo Shrines even predate the city's establishment as national capital in 794. Throughout the thousand years that Kyoto served as Japan's capital city, the Imperial Court patronized the shrines as establishments dedicated to the city's protection and prosperity.

**Shimogamo Shrine** (下鴨神社, Shimogamo Jinja, "Lower Kamo Shrine") is located at the junction of the Takano and Kamo rivers. It is surrounded by the Tadasu no Mori, a forest which was preserved over the centuries and contains trees that are up to 600 years old.

**Kamigamo Shrine** (上賀茂神社, Kamigamo Jinja, "Upper Kamo Shrine") stands about three and a half kilometers upriver from Shimogamo Shrine. It features two sand cones on its grounds that serve a purification function and have been made ritually since ancient times.

The Kamo Shrines jointly hold one of [Kyoto](e2158.html)'s three biggest [festivals](e2063.html), the [Aoi Matsuri](e3948.html). Every year on May 15 at 10:30am, a large procession dressed in the traditional style of the imperial court leaves from the [Imperial Palace](e3917.html), continues to Shimogamo, and ends the day at Kamigamo. Both shrines also host other smaller festivals throughout the year.

Kamigamo Shrine

**Shimogamo Shrine** is a 15 minute walk from Demachi-Yanagi Station on the Keihan Line. Alternatively, Kyoto City Bus number 4 bound for Kamigamojinja-mae can be taken from the station to Shimogamojinja-mae bus stop (5 minutes, 230 yen) directly beside the shrine.

**Kamigamo Shrine** can be reached in 30 minutes from Demachi-Yanagi Station or Shimogamo Shrine by Kyoto City Bus number 4 (230 yen). Get off at the last stop, Kamigamojinja-mae. Alternatively, the shrine can be reached in a 15 minute walk from Kitayama Station on the Karasuma Subway Line.

[How to get to and around Kyoto](e2363.html)