---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3051.html
title: Suggested Tokyo walks, itineraries and side trips
description: Suggested schedules and side trips for Tokyo.
keywords: tokyo, suggested, itineraries, walks, schedules, tours, side trips
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3248
char_count: 22940
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:01:14
---

At least two full days are required to get a taste of [Tokyo](e2164.html), and at least a week is needed to get to know Japan's capital city a little bit more intimately.

### Suggested full-day schedules

* 

  [Western Tokyo Full Day](e3051_west_tokyo_full.html)

  This itinerary takes you on a full day walking tour of [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s popular western districts. Starting at the tranquil grounds of [Meiji Shrine](e3002.html), the plan moves on to explore urban [Shinjuku](e3011.html), [Shibuya](e3007.html) and [Harajuku](e3006.html), some of the city's most popular shopping and entertainment districts and centers of Japan's youth culture and fashion.
* 

  [Asakusa and Odaiba Full Day](e3051_odaiba_asakusa_full.html)

  This itinerary combines a trip to the historic [Asakusa](e3004.html) district, including [Sensoji Temple](e3001.html) and its narrow shopping streets with a visit to the modern malls and museums on [Odaiba](e3008.html). The plan utilizes the [Tokyo Water Bus](e3042.html) and Yurikamome elevated train to travel between the two districts and stops off at [Hama Rikyu](e3025.html) garden along the way.

### Suggested half-day schedules

* 

  [Shinjuku Half Day](e3051_shinjuku_half.html)

  This half day itinerary explores the sites around Shinjuku Station, the busiest train station in the world, which is surrounded by one of Tokyo's most popular shopping and entertainment districts. Included in the plan are [Shinjuku Gyoen](e3034_001.html), the modern skyscraper district of western Shinjuku and the [observation decks](e3057.html) of the [Tokyo Metropolitan Government Office](e3011_tocho.html) with plenty of opportunities for shopping and a large variety of restaurants along the way.
* 

  [Asakusa Half Day](e3051_asakusa_half.html)

  Basically the first half of our [Asakusa and Odaiba full day](e3051_odaiba_asakusa_full.html) itinerary, this plan explores the narrow shopping lanes and entertainment streets around [Sensoji Temple](e3001.html) in the historic [Asakusa](e3004.html) district.
* 

  [Imperial Palace and Ginza Half Day](e3051_imperial_ginza_half.html)

  This itinerary explores the areas surrounding [Tokyo Station](e3037.html). It combines a visit to the spacious grounds of the [Tokyo Imperial Palace](e3017.html) with a trip to Tokyo's famed [Ginza](e3005.html) shopping district.
* 

  [Shinagawa Half Day](e3051_shinagawa_half.html)

  This walk leads through the old-fashioned streets of [Shinagawa](e3040.html)'s fomer post town, along promenades of Tokyo's reclaimed waterfront districts and around arty Tennozu Isle.

### Suggested side trips

* 

  [Kamakura](e2166.html)

  [Kamakura](e2166.html), one hour south of Tokyo, is full of historic [temples](e2058.html) and [shrines](e2059.html). It makes a perfect one day trip from Tokyo, especially for those looking to see some traditional Japanese culture.
* 

  [Nikko](e3800.html)

  [Nikko](e3800.html), two hours north of Tokyo, is the site of the famous [Nikko Toshogu Shrine](e3801.html), the mausoleum of [Tokugawa Ieyasu](e2128.html) who was one of Japan's most influential personalities. The shrines and temples of Nikko can be seen in a one day trip from Tokyo, but two days are recommended if you also wish to visit Nikko's beautiful national park.
* 

  [Yokohama](e2156.html)

  [Yokohama](e2156.html) is Japan's second most populated city, only half an hour south of Tokyo. It makes a good one day trip from Tokyo, offering museums, Japan's largest [Chinatown](e3201.html) and a pleasant [waterfront area](e3200.html).
* 

  [Hakone](e5200.html)

  [Hakone](e5200.html), a beautiful mountainous area which is part of the Fuji-Hakone-Izu National Park, lies about two hours west of Tokyo. Hakone offers visitors beautiful nature, good views of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html), historic sites and plenty of [hot springs](e2292.html). Hakone can be visited in a one day trip, but an overnight stay at a [ryokan](e2029.html) is recommended.
* 

  [Kusatsu Onsen](e7400.html)

  Three hours north of Tokyo, [Kusatsu Onsen](e7400.html) is one of Japan's most famous [hot spring resorts](e2292.html), blessed with copious amounts of some the country's best hot spring water. The town offers a wide variety of attractive [hot spring baths](e7402.html) and other outdoor activities, and is best visited on an overnight trip combined with a stay at a [ryokan](e2029.html).
* 

  [Fuji Five Lakes](e6900.html)

  The [Fuji Five Lakes](e6900.html) (Fujigoko) is a lake resort region at the base of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html), with plenty of attractions such as [theme parks](e2067.html), [hot springs](e6902.html), [museums](e6927.html) and outdoor activities to explore. This is also the most popular access point for Mount Fuji and makes a good base for [climbing the mountain](e6901.html).
* 

  [Tokyo Disney Resort](e3016.html)

  Just 15 minutes from Tokyo Station, [Tokyo Disney Resort](e3016.html) is made up of two separate parks: [Tokyo Disneyland](e3016_land.html) and [Tokyo DisneySea](e3016_sea.html). The former is a version of the original Disneyland in Los Angeles, while Tokyo DisneySea is a unique, water-themed park exclusive to Japan.
* 

  [Kawagoe](e6500.html)

  A short 30 minute train ride from [Ikebukuro](e3038.html), [Kawagoe](e6500.html) is a historic town known as "Little Edo" (Edo being the former name of Tokyo), because the city retains some of the architecture and ambience of the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868), which have disappeared in Tokyo itself due to earthquakes, wars and redevelopment.


[Read our Tokyo Hotel Guide](/hotels/tokyo.html)