---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3529.html
title: Onsenji Temple
description: Visitor guide for Onsenji, a temple in Kinosaki Onsen.
keywords: kinosaki, onsen, onsenji, temple, museum, ropeway
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1951
char_count: 13003
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:14:09
---

The main hall of Onsenji Temple

At the western end of town along a mountain slope stands Onsenji Temple (温泉寺, lit. "hot spring temple"). This [temple](e2058.html) is dedicated to a Buddhist saint who, according to legend, prayed for 1000 days to bring forth spring water to [Kinosaki](e3525.html).

In the old days, visitors had to first pay a visit to the temple before being admitted to any of the [baths](e3527.html) in town. While most people no longer make the journey to Onsenji before bathing, the temple remains a nice place to visit.

View from observation deck at the ropeway's uppermost station

Onsenji's main treasure is a two-meter-tall, eleven-headed [Kannon Buddha](e2055.html) which is displayed to the public in its entirety only once every 33 years for a period of three years (the next time will be from the year 2054). A partial glimpse at the statue can be taken every year on April 23rd and 24th during the Onsen [Matsuri](e2063.html).

Near the temple's main hall stands the **Kinosaki Art Museum**, a small, interesting museum of historic artifacts and temple treasures.

Kinosaki Art Museum

While most of the temple's buildings are located halfway up the forested mountain, a few structures, including a hall dedicated to Yakushi Buddha and the Sanmon temple gate, stand at the foot of the mountain, across the road from [Kono-yu public bath house](e3527.html).

The **Kinosaki Ropeway** departs from near the temple gate to an observation deck at the mountain summit, making an intermediate stop next to Onsenji's main hall. The ropeway and observation deck offer great views of [Kinosaki](e3525.html) and surroundings.

Kinosaki Ropeway

Onsenji's temple gate and the ropeway's lower station are located at the western end of the town, near the [Kono-yu public bath house](e3527.html), about a 20 minute walk or a short [bus](e2015.html) or [taxi](e2021.html) ride from Kinosaki Station. From there, the temple's main hall can be reached by a short ropeway ride (get off at the intermediate "Onsenji" station) or by walking up a steep, forested path for about 15-20 minutes.

[How to get to and around Kinosaki Onsen](e3526.html)