---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3003.html
title: Akihabara
description: Visitor guide for Akihabara, the electric town in Tokyo.
keywords: akihabara, akiba, electric, town, electronics, otaku, manga, anime, tokyo, japan
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3495
char_count: 24913
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:00:18
---

Akihabara Electric Town

Akihabara (秋葉原), also called Akiba after a former local [shrine](e2059.html), is a district in central [Tokyo](e2164.html) that is famous for its many electronics shops and has also gained recognition as the center of Japan's otaku (diehard fan) culture. Many shops and establishments devoted to [anime and manga](e2070.html) are dispersed among the electronic stores in the district. On Sundays, Chuo Dori, the main street through the district, is closed to car traffic from 13:00 to 18:00 (until 17:00 from October through March).

Akihabara has seen some redevelopment over the past years, which added some large, modern buildings to the mix of small to medium-sized shops and buildings. Most prominent among them is a huge [Yodobashi electronics store](e3003.html#yodobashi) just next to the station.

Side streets lined by electronics shops and maid cafes

### Electronics

Hundreds of electronics shops, ranging from tiny one-man stalls specializing in a particular electronic component to large electronics retailers, line the main Chuo Dori street and the crowded side streets around Akihabara. They offer everything from the newest computers, cameras, televisions, mobile phones, electronics parts and home appliances to second-hand goods and electronic junk.

A few chain stores such as [Sofmap](e3003.html#sofmap) and [Laox](e3003.html#laox) each operate multiple specialized branches along the main roads, while small independent shops can be found in the side streets. The only mega sized store is the [Yodobashi Camera](e3003.html#yodobashi) complex on the east side of the station.

Note that some of the electronics on sale are only intended for use in Japan due to [voltage and other technical differences](e2225.html), Japanese language documentation and limited warranties. However, several stores also feature a selection of international models intended for overseas use, and most also offer [tax-free shopping](e2450_how.html) to foreign tourists.

Game center and vending machines selling soft drinks and canned oden

### Otaku goods

The character of Akihabara has constantly changed over the decades and continues to do so. In recent decades Akihabara has emerged as a center of Japanese otaku and [anime](e2070.html) culture, and dozens of stores specializing in anime, manga, retro video games, figurines, card games and other collectibles have filled the spaces between the electronics retailers.

In addition to shops, various other animation-related establishments have become popular in the area, particularly **maid cafes** where waitresses dress up and act like maids or anime characters, and **manga cafes** ([manga kissa](e2025_manga_kissa.html)), a type of internet cafe where customers can read comics and watch videos in addition to having access to the internet.

### Major electronics stores

* 

  Sofmap

  Hours: 11:00 to 20:00

  Sofmap operates several shops around Akihabara. Most of the shops are specialized in one type of product, such as computers, software and amusement.
* 

  Laox

  Hours: 9:30 to 19:30

  Laox offers hobby and game related products in addition to electronics, souvenirs and lifestyle goods. The Akihabara main store is one of the few Laox stores that have survived the corona pandemic.
* 

  Akky

  Hours: 9:30 to 20:00

  Akky specializes in tax-free goods and operates two shops around Akihabara Station. Akky sells a variety of electronic equipment for overseas use, including cameras, computers, televisions, DVD players and software.
* 

  Yodobashi Camera

  Hours: 9:30 to 22:00 (restaurants from 11:00)

  The [Shinjuku](e3011.html)-based discount electronic store giant Yodobashi Camera opened its huge Akihabara branch in 2005. Unlike most other electronic shops, it is located on the east side of Akihabara Station. This branch offers one stop shopping for computers, games, watches and cameras, and sells tax-free and international models.

### Otaku attractions

* 

  Maid Cafes

  Maid cafes are cosplay-themed restaurants where guests are served by waitresses who are typically dressed as French maids. In addition to serving food, the maids engage in conversation and games with the customers and treat them with the respectful language due to the master of a house. Maid cafes are popular with both men and women, and some cafes, like the @Home Cafe, offer English speaking maids.
* 

  Don Quijote

  Hours: open 24 hours

  Don Quijote is a discount store chain that carries everything from groceries and toys to electronics and high end fashion goods. The Akihabara branch is home to the girl pop group AKB48, who perform daily shows at their theater on the 8th floor of the store (typically 2400 or 3400 yen). There is also a branch of the @Home Cafe [maid cafe](e3003.html#maidcafe) on the 5th floor of the store.
* 

  Super Potato

  Hours: 11:00 to 20:00

  Super Potato sells all types of video games and video game consoles, and specializes in retro systems and games. Here you can find practically every game system ever produced along with a huge selection of used game cartridges, discs and game accessories.
* 

  Gamers

  10:00 to 22:00 (to 21:00 on weekends; some floors have shorter hours)

  Gamers sells a wide range of anime and manga related goods including movies, video games, CDs, stationery, software and character goods.
* 

  Mandarake

  Hours: 12:00 to 20:00

  Mandarake operates a large store in Akihabara. Specializing in pre-owned goods, it is a good place to find rare manga, figurines, dolls, posters, CDs, toys and other types of manga-related goods.

**Akihabara Station** is a busy station served by the [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html), [JR Keihin-Tohoku Line](e2371.html), [JR Sobu Line](e2372.html), the Tsukuba Express and the Hibiya Subway Line. **Suehirocho Station** on the Ginza Subway Line is located around the northern end of the district.

### From Tokyo Station

Akihabara is two stations north of [Tokyo Station](e3037.html) by [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html) or [JR Keihin-Tohoku Line](e2371.html) (3 minutes, 150 yen one way).

### From Shinjuku Station

Take the [JR Chuo Line](e2372.html) (orange colored rapid service) from [Shinjuku](e3011.html) to Ochanomizu (10 minutes) and make an easy transfer to the JR Sobu Line (yellow colored local service) for one more station to Akihabara (2 minutes). Alternatively, take a yellow colored train all the way from Shinjuku to Akihabara (17 minutes). The one way fare is 180 yen in either case.

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)