---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3921.html
title: Pontocho
description: Visitor guide for Pontocho, a traditional nightlife district of Kyoto.
keywords: pontocho, kyoto, alley, geisha
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3229
char_count: 22429
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:44:50
---

Restaurant entrances along Pontocho

Pontocho (先斗町, Pontochō) is one of [Kyoto](e2158.html)'s most atmospheric dining areas. It is a narrow alley running from Shijo-dori to Sanjo-dori, one block west of Kamogawa River. The alley is packed with restaurants on both sides offering a wide range of dining options from inexpensive [yakitori](/r/e102.html) to traditional and modern [Kyoto cuisine](e3963.html), foreign cuisine and highly exclusive establishments that require the right connections and a fat wallet.

Business hours and closing days of the restaurants, bars and shops along Pontocho vary by establishment, but most places are usually open from around 17:00 to 23:00. Some also open for lunch. Many establishments offer English menus.

Most of the restaurants along the eastern side of the alley overlook Kamogawa River. From May to September, many of them build temporary platforms over the flowing water where patrons can dine out in the open air. Known as [kawayuka](e3963.html), this type of dining was developed as a way to beat the summer heat and is a great way to try some traditional [Kyoto cuisine](e3963.html) while taking in the cooling effects of the flowing water and the lively summer atmosphere. Advance reservations for kawayuka are recommended especially on Fridays and Saturdays.

Kawayuka along Kamogawa River

The closest [bus](e2015.html) stop to Pontocho is Shijo Kawaramachi, which is served by numerous bus lines, including lines 17 and 205 from [Kyoto Station](e3922.html). The closest train stations are Kyoto-Kawaramachi Station on the Hankyu Line and Shijo Station on the Keihan Line.

[How to get to and around Kyoto](e2363.html)