---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3201.html
title: Yokohama Chinatown
description: Visitor guide for Yokohama Chinatown, the largest Chinatown in Japan.
keywords: yokohama, chinatown, chukagai
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1944
char_count: 13173
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:09:56
---

Yokohama Chinatown (横浜中華街, Yokohama Chūkagai) is Japan's largest [Chinatown](e2420.html), located in central [Yokohama](e2156.html). A large number of Chinese stores and restaurants can be found in the narrow and colorful streets of Chinatown. Various events and festivals such as Chinese New Year around the beginning of February are also held at Chinatown.

Yokohama Chinatown quickly developed, after the port of Yokohama had been one of the first Japanese ports to be opened to foreign trade in [1859](e2128.html). It became the residence of the many Chinese traders who settled down in the city. Today, there are more businesses than actual residents living in the area.

Street in Chinatown

Four colorful gates stand at the entrances to [Chinatown](e2420.html), and five more gates can be found within. The Kanteibyo is a gaudily colored [temple](e2058.html) in the center of Chinatown. Constructed in 1871 with donations from Chinese residents, it is dedicated to the Chinese god of good business and prosperity.

The main attraction of the Yokohama Chinatown, however, is the cuisine offered at its many restaurants and food stands. Favorites include steamed buns (manju), [ramen](e2042.html) noodles and a wide array of other Chinese dishes, many of which have been Japanized to a certain degree.

Kanteibyo Temple

The closest stations to Yokohama Chinatown are Motomachi-Chukagai Station along the Minato Mirai Line (8 minutes, 230 yen from Yokohama Station) and Ishikawacho Station along the JR Negishi Line (7 minutes, 170 yen from Yokohama Station).

[How to get to and around Yokohama](e2360.html)