---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3406.html
title: Downtown Hiroshima
description: Visitor guide for Hiroshima's downtown area.
keywords: hiroshima, downtown, hondori, shopping, okonomiyaki, aioi, carp, okonomimura
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1807
char_count: 12438
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:41:35
---

Hondori Arcade

[Hiroshima](e2160.html) has a bustling downtown area, the main feature of which is Hondori Street, a pedestrian arcade that is closed to traffic and lined with shops and restaurants. It starts near the [Peace Park](e3400.html) and stretches east about half a kilometer. Running parallel to Hondori is Aioidori (Aioi Street), the main street used by cars and trams. Along Aioi Street stand a few large [department stores](e2072.html) where more shopping can be found.

While downtown, visitors to Hiroshima may want to take the opportunity to try Hiroshima's most famous specialty: Hiroshima-style [okonomiyaki](/r/e100.html). Many restaurants along both Hondori and Aioi streets offer the local specialty, but the surest place to find it is in Okonomimura.

Usually translated as Okonomiyaki Village, Okonomimura is a small area just south of the eastern end of Hondori. As its name implies, it is devoted to [okonomiyaki](/r/e100.html). Okonomimura has many different restaurants to choose from and is a convenient place in the downtown area to take a break and grab a bite.

Hiroshima-style Okonomiyaki

Hiroshima's downtown area is located a five minute tram ride by tram lines 1, 2 or 6, or a 20 minute walk west of Hiroshima Station. Okonomimura and the eastern end of Hondori are best accessed from Hacchobori tram stop. The Hiroshima downtown area is also served by the [Hiroshima Sightseeing Loop Bus](e3404.html) (Meipuru-pu).

[How to get to and around Hiroshima](e3404.html)