---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3033.html
title: Nihonbashi
description: Visitor guide for Nihonbashi, a city district of Tokyo centered around the Nihonbashi bridge.
keywords: nihonbashi, tokyo, nihombashi, mitsukoshi, coredo, mitsui, currency
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3549
char_count: 25457
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:59:04
---

Nihonbashi Bridge

Nihonbashi (日本橋, literally "Japan Bridge") is a city district of [Tokyo](e2164.html), north of [Ginza](e3005.html) and within walking distance of [Tokyo Station](e3037.html). The bridge, after which the district is named, has been the kilometer zero marker for Japan's national highway network since the early [Edo Period](e2128.html).

Formerly a wooden bridge, the Nihonbashi was reconstructed in stone during the [Meiji Period](e2130.html), and was covered by an [expressway](e2354.html) in the 1960s. You can cross a partial 1:1 replica of the original wooden bridge in the [Edo-Tokyo Museum](e3070.html) in [Ryogoku](e3022.html), while a half sized replica of the bridge connects the fourth and fifth floors of the International Terminal at [Haneda Airport](e2430.html).

Coredo Muromachi

As the "center of Japan", the Nihonbashi district has enjoyed much commercial prosperity over the centuries, and the area has flourished with bustling shops lining the streets and shipping canals (most of which have been filled in in the meantime). Many shops with centuries-long histories are still operating in the district today and make for pleasant strolls. During the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1600-1867), the Mitsui family, one of the most powerful merchant families, opened a highly successful textile shop, the Echigoya, in Nihonbashi. Its successor, the [Mitsukoshi Nihonbashi](#mitsukoshinihonbashi), became Japan's first [department store](e2072.html) and still stands in the district's center.

Recent redevelopment projects have revitalized the Nihonbashi district with tasteful new additions. A highlight is the [Coredo Muromachi](#coredomuromachi) complex with its three elegant skyscrapers that feature shopping and dining in a modern, yet traditional design inspired by the [Edo Period](e2128.html) heritage of the merchant district. Many of its shops specialize in traditional crafts or local foods from across Japan, such as lacquerware, gold leaf, knives, [chopsticks](e2039.html), [sake](e2037_sake.html), [condiments](e2313.html), [seaweed](e2310.html) and [sweets](e2312.html).

### Shopping and dining

* 

  Mitsukoshi Nihonbashi

  Shops: 10:00 to 19:00  
  Restaurants: 11:00 to 22:00

  Mitsukoshi Nihonbashi can be called the first [department store](e2072.html) in Japan. Construction of Mitsukoshi's current 7-story flagship store was completed in 1935 and was designated as a historic structure in 1999. There is an adjacent 10-story annex building that has direct connections on a few floors. It is possible to spend an entire day shopping here, and many of its shops are decidedly high-end.
* 

  Coredo Muromachi

  Shops: typically 10:00 to 20:00  
  Restaurants: typically 11:00 to 23:00

  Located just across the street from the Mitsukoshi department store, Coredo Muromachi is a newly redeveloped shopping and dining complex comprising of multiple elegant skyscrapers. The trendy area has a modern, yet traditional style inspired by the district's past. Traditional goods and foods from across Japan are offered, and some shops have operated in the district for centuries.
* 

  Coredo Nihonbashi

  Shops: 11:00 to 20:00  
  Restaurants: 11:00 to 23:00 (until 22:00 on weekends and [national holidays](e2062.html))

  Located just beside Nihonbashi Subway Station, Coredo's approx. 50 shops and restaurants are spread across the lower five floors of the large building.
* 

  Takashimaya Nihonbashi

  Shops: 10:30 to 19:30  
  Restaurants: 11:00 to 21:30

  The Takashimaya Nihonbashi store is housed in a nostalgia-evoking Western-style building from 1933 and is the first [department store](e2072.html) designated an important cultural property. A contrast-rich extension of the store took place in 2018 with the opening of two new, adjacent buildings that increased the store's floor space by 50%.

### Museums

* 

  Mitsui Memorial Museum

  Hours: 10:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Mondays and a small number of irregular closures  
  Admission: 1000 yen (or 1500 yen for special exhibition)

  The museum has elegant exhibition galleries in which objects are displayed from the art collection of the Mitsui family, the same family that opened the nearby Mitsukoshi department store. The museum was opened in 2005 and has regularly changing themed exhibitions and a reconstruction of a [teahouse](e2096.html). It is located in the Mitsui Tower complex that also houses the [Mandarin Oriental](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/mandarin-oriental-tokyo.html?aid=371183) on its top floors.
* 

  Currency Museum

  Hours: 9:30 to 16:30 (entry until 16:00)  
  Closed: Mondays (except [national holidays](e2062.html)), December 29 to January 4  
  Admission: Free

  Located in an annex building across the street from the Bank of Japan, the museum was opened in 1982 to commemorate the bank's centenary. A detailed history of currency in Japan is displayed, and there are plenty of interesting historical coins and bills on display.

### Other attractions

* 

  Tokyo Stock Exchange

  Hours: 9:00 to 16:30 (entry until 16:00)  
  Closed: Weekends, [national holidays](e2062.html), December 31 to January 3  
  Admission: Free

  Located not far from the Nihonbashi Bridge, the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) is open to the public on trading days. Visitors can view the trading center from the visitors' gallery located one story above, participate in a simulated stock trading game, and learn about the history of the Japanese securities market.

**Nihonbashi Station** on the Ginza, Tozai and Asakusa subway lines or **Mitsukoshimae Station** on the Hanzomon and Ginza subway lines bring you into the very center of the Nihonbashi district. Nihonbashi can also be accessed in a 5-10 minute walk from the Nihonbashi Exit of **Tokyo Station**.

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)