---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3703.html
title: Hirosaki Former Samurai District
description: Visitor guide for the former samurai district of the city of Hirosaki in northern Japan.
keywords: hirosaki, samurai, district
content_type: attraction
word_count: 549
char_count: 3911
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:31:16
---

Inside the Former Ishiba Residence

When the Tsugaru Clan sided with [Tokugawa Ieyasu](e2128.html) at the Battle of Sekigahara in 1600, they ensured their authority as the feudal lords of Hirosaki for the 250 years of the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868). [Hirosaki Castle](e3700.html) was to be the base from which they would rule, and around it a typical [castle town](e2296.html) developed.

Like in all castle towns, the [samurai](e2127.html) who served the local clan lived in residences surrounding the [castle](e2296.html) of their feudal lord. Today, a section north of [Hirosaki Castle](e3700.html) remains preserved as a former samurai district. Although much of the area looks like an ordinary modern Japanese residential area today, three samurai houses and one merchant house have been preserved and are open to the public:

* 

  Ito Residence

  Hours: 10:00 to 16:00  
  Closed: Tuesday and Friday from July to October, Monday to Thursday from November to March, August 13, December 29 to January 3  
  Admission: Free

  The Ito were a samurai family during the Edo Period. The doctor of the Tsugaru feudal lord lived in the Ito Residence.
* 

  Umeda Residence

  Hours: 10:00 to 16:00  
  Closed: December to March, Tuesday and Friday from July to October, Monday to Thursday in November, August 13, December 29 to January 3  
  Admission: Free

  Like the Ito, the Umeda were a samurai family during the Edo Period. Their residence is located just behind the residence of the Ito.
* 

  Iwata Residence

  Hours: 10:00 to 16:00  
  Closed: Monday and Thursday from July to October, Wednesday to Sunday from November to March, August 13, December 29 to January 3  
  Admission: Free

  The Iwata Residence is located at the eastern end of the district. It was also a samurai residence during the Edo Period.
* 

  Ishiba Residence

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: Irregular closures, [New Year](e2276.html)  
  Admission into the inner area: 100 yen

  The Ishiba family were not samurai, but members of the merchant class, who dealt with household goods and straw. The former residence of the Ishiba is still in active use today, as both a shop and a home.

The samurai district is located just north of [Hirosaki Park](e3700.html). The closest stop on the [Dotemachi Loop Bus](e3702.html#section_orientation) is "Bunka Center-mae", a ten minute walk away. Another bus loop line, the Tamenobu Loop Bus, goes as far as the [Neputa Mura](e3704.html) beside the samurai district; however, it operates considerably less frequently than the Dotemachi Loop Bus and not at all during the winter.

[How to get to and around Hirosaki](e3702.html)