---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3056.html
title: Harry Potter Studio Tour
description: Visitor guide for the Harry Potter Studio Tour by Warner Bros Studio Tour Tokyo
keywords: harry, potter, harrypotter, tokyo, japan, studio, tour
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3107
char_count: 21691
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:01:20
---

The Warner Bros. Studio Tour Tokyo is a walkthrough-style entertainment facility, which takes visitors behind the scenes of the Harry Potter film series. Opened in 2023, the facility is built on the grounds of the former Toshimaen amusement park, which closed in 2020, a 20 minute train ride from [Ikebukuro](e3038.html) and [Shinjuku](e3011.html) in central [Tokyo](e2164.html).

Warner Bros. Studio Tour Tokyo is similar to the one in London, which opened in 2012, and does not feature any rides like the typical [theme park](e2067.html). Instead, visitors explore the world of Harry Potter on foot through iconic film sets. Digital guides, which further enhance the self-guided experience with narrations in Japanese and English, are available for an additional fee.

The main attractions in the Studio Tour are the iconic [sets](#sets), which recreate the magic and atmosphere of the movies, including one which is exclusive to Tokyo. The sets offer plenty of photo opportunities and activities, such as green screen experiences like riding a broomstick, becoming a Hogwarts portrait and stepping into the crowd of a Quidditch match. Note that selected activities and experiences require an additional fee. Visitors can further learn about the props, costumes and detailed artworks of the film series.

A number of food and drink establishments can be found at the Studio Tour, offering visitors a varied menu, including Butterbeer, the popular wizarding drink. Additionally, there are also two shops, where visitors can look forward to purchasing Wizarding World products. The shops can be accessed only by those with valid tickets.

### Film sets

* 

  Great Hall

  The Great Hall is the central gathering place in Hogwarts and possibly one of the most recognized sets in the film series as it served as the backdrop for many iconic scenes. Visitors who step through the grand doors can discover the intricate details of this opulent hall.
* 

  Platform 9 3/4

  Platform 9 3/4 is the iconic train platform from where students board the Hogwarts Express train to Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. The set recreates the platform as well as the locomotive, and provides plenty of photo opportunities.
* 

  Diagon Alley

  Diagon Alley is the main shopping street where Hogwarts students purchased their school supplies. The shop windows display intricate and elaborate artworks, which visitors can inspect at a close range.
* 

  Forbidden Forest

  Also known as the Dark Forest, visitors to this set can explore the forest, which gets more forbidding the deeper you venture in, and its animals and magical creatures. Visitors will be able toe experience some scenes like it happened in the movies.
* 

  Ministry of Magic

  Exclusive to Tokyo, the full-size Ministry of Magic set recreates the Atrium, the entry and exit points of the Ministry Headquarters. Large fireplaces in the set allow visitors to experience traveling to the Ministry like an employee.

'Wizarding World' and all related names, characters and indicia are trademarks of and © Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc. - Wizarding World publishing rights © J.K. Rowling., and Warner Bros. Studio Tour London - The Making of Harry Potter.

The Warner Bros Studio Tour Tokyo is two minutes on foot from Toshimaen Station, which is served by the Seibu Toshima Line and the Oedo Subway Line.

#### From Ikebukuro Station

Take the Seibu Ikebukuro Line bound for Toshimaen from Ikebukuro Station and get off at Toshimaen Station (17 minutes, 190 yen one way).

#### From Shinjuku Station

Take the Oedo Subway Line from Shinjuku Station and get off at Toshimaen Station (20 minutes, 280 yen one way)