---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3072.html
title: Yurakucho
description: Visitor guide for the Yurakucho shopping and dining district in Tokyo.
keywords: yurakucho, station, tokyo, dining, undertrack, gado-shita, below the girder
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3034
char_count: 21539
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:58:23
---

The redeveloped pedestrian plaza on the east side of Yurakucho Station

The Yurakucho (有楽町, Yūrakuchō) district lies one stop south of [Tokyo Station](e3037.html) along the [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html). Together with the adjacent [Ginza](e3005.html) district, Yurakucho offers a wealth of [shopping](e3053.html) and [dining](e3075.html) opportunities. Yet at the same time, Yurakucho has a more approachable, relaxed atmosphere than its upscale neighbor, and parts of it maintain a charming, old neighborhood feel.

One of Yurakucho's most interesting draws is the lively **restaurant district** built up under the brick arches beneath the elevated train tracks of the [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html). Known in Japanese as **Gado-shita**, from "below the girder", these favored watering holes of Tokyo businessmen occupy virtually all of the free space under nearly 700 meters of track on both sides of Yurakucho Station.

Yurakucho's restaurants under the train tracks

The restaurants extend for a few hundred meters both north and south of the station, and run nearly all the way to Tokyo Station in the neighboring [Marunouchi](e3037.html) district. Most of the restaurants face towards the west side of the train tracks, although there is a good selection of them around the east side south of the station, as well. In some areas, the restaurants open up toward the street and provide outdoor seating in the warmer months.

Many of the eateries under the train tracks are authentic [izakaya](e2036_izakaya.html) and [yakitori](/r/e102.html) joints where one can grab a cold [beer](e2037_beer.html) and some casual good eats. But a wide range of other dining establishments can be found there, as well, including elegant French wine bars, Italian restaurants and German beer halls, especially around the slightly more upscale northwestern side of Yurakucho Station.

Some of the older, grittier Gado-shita izakaya and yakitori food stalls built under the tracks

The area east of Yurakucho Station serves as the gateway to the [Ginza](e3005.html) district. It underwent a facelift a few years ago and is now dominated by a pedestrian-friendly plaza surrounded by several shopping complexes, including ITOCiA, Hankyu Men's (a [department store](e2072.html) for men) and a Lumine department store.

The west side of the station is best known for the [Tokyo International Forum](e3037.html#forum), an architectural highlight that serves as a venue for various conventions, exhibitions, concerts and events; and one of Tokyo's largest Bic Camera electronic stores, boasting eight floors with the newest electronic goods.

Tokyo International Forum

The Yurakucho District surrounds **Yurakucho Station** on the [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html), the [JR Keihin-Tohoku Line](e2371.html) and the Yurakucho Subway Line. The area is also accessible via Ginza Station on the Marunouchi and Hibiya subway lines, and Hibiya Station on the Hibiya Subway Line.

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)