---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3018.html
title: Imperial Palace East Gardens
description: Visitor guide for the Imperial Palace East Gardens in Tokyo.
keywords: tokyo, imperial, palace, east, garden, gardens, higashi, gyoen
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2874
char_count: 20388
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:50:58
---

The [Imperial Palace](e3017.html) East Gardens (皇居東御苑, Kōkyo Higashi Gyoen) are part of the inner palace area and open to the public. They are the former site of Edo Castle's innermost circles of defense, the honmaru ("main circle") and ninomaru ("secondary circle"). None of the main buildings remain today, but the moats, walls, entrance gates and several guardhouses still exist.

Edo Castle was the residence of the [Tokugawa](e2128.html) [shogun](e2127.html) who ruled Japan from [1603 to 1867](e2128.html). [Emperor Meiji](e2130.html) also resided there from 1868 to 1888 before moving to the newly constructed [Imperial Palace](e3017.html).

The foundation of the former castle tower

A wide lawn and the remaining foundation of the former [castle tower](e2296.html) can be found on top of the hill, where the castle's innermost buildings once stood. The castle tower was completed in [1638](e2128.html) as the tallest castle tower in Japan's history. But only a few years later in 1657, it was destroyed by citywide fires and has not been rebuilt since.

In place of the castle's former palace buildings in the secondary circle of defense (ninomaru) at the foot of the hill, a nice Japanese-style [garden](e2099.html) has been created.

Ninomaru Japanese garden

The Otemon entrance to the East Gardens is a short walk from Otemachi Station on the Chiyoda, Tozai, Marunouchi, Hanzomon and Mita subway lines. It can also be reached in a 10-15 minute walk from [Tokyo Station](e3037.html).

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)