---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3403.html
title: Shukkeien Garden
description: Visitor guide for Shukkeien Garden in Hiroshima.
keywords: shukkeien, japanese, garden, miniature, hiroshima
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1798
char_count: 12325
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:41:49
---

Shukkeien (縮景園) can be translated into English as "shrunken-scenery garden", which is also a good description of the [garden](e2099.html) itself. Valleys, mountains and forests are represented in miniature in the garden's landscapes. Through careful cultivation of the land and vegetation, the garden mimics a variety of natural formations and scenic views.

Shukkeien has a long history dating back to 1620, just after the completion of [Hiroshima Castle](e3402.html). The garden displays many features of the traditional aesthetics of [Japanese gardens](e2099.html). Around the garden's main pond there are a number of [tea houses](e2096.html) which offer visitors ideal views of the surrounding scenery.

The entire garden is connected by a path which winds around the pond at the center of the garden. The path passes through all of Shukkeien's various miniaturized sceneries. Following this path around the garden is the best way to enjoy Shukkeien.

Pond and Kokokyo Bridge

### On foot

Shukkeien is a 15 minute walk from Hiroshima Station.

### By bus

The garden can be reached by the [Hiroshima Sightseeing Loop Bus](e3404.html) (Meipuru-pu) in about four minutes from Hiroshima Station.

### By tram

The garden is a short walk from "Shukkeien-mae" along tram line 9. From Hiroshima Station, take tram line 1, 2 or 6 to Hacchobori and transfer to tram line 9. The entire journey takes about 15 minutes and costs 240 yen.

[How to get to and around Hiroshima](e3404.html)