---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3876.html
title: Tokyo to Kinugawa Onsen\: How to get to and around Kinugawa Onsen
description: About access, orientation and transportation around Kinugawa Onsen.
keywords: kinugawa, onsen, nikko, tobu, jr, train, bus, access, orientation, transportation, guide, travel
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2298
char_count: 14980
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:36:14
---

From/To:

TokyoNikko

[Kinugawa Onsen](e3875.html) is located about 130 kilometers north of [Tokyo](e2164.html) and about 30 minutes away from [Nikko](e3800.html) by train. It is connected with [Tokyo](e2164.html) and Nikko by Tobu Railway:

The Tobu terminal station in Tokyo for trains to [Kinugawa Onsen](e3875.html) is Tobu Asakusa Station, which can be accessed by subway (Ginza and Asakusa lines). Travelers have the choice of fast and expensive [limited express](e2016.html) trains or slower but cheaper express and local trains.

There are 1-2 [limited express](e2016.html) trains per hour between [Asakusa](e3004.html) and Kinugawa Onsen, which take about two hours and cost 3040-3730 yen one way depending on the train set and travel date. Some connections require a transfer at Shimo-Imaichi Station. By express and local trains, the one way journey costs only 1590 yen, but takes at least half an hour longer and requires 1-3 transfers of trains along the way.

Tobu offers various [passes](e2358_002.html), which include the round trip from Tokyo to Kinugawa Onsen as well as unlimited use of trains between Kinugawa Onsen and [Nikko](e3800.html) and buses in the Kinugawa Onsen area. Note that the passes do not cover the supplement fee required on limited express trains (1450-2140 yen one way). The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and other JR passes are not valid on these Tobu trains.

Three direct "Kinugawa" [limited express](e2016.html) trains per day, cooperated by Japan Railways (JR) and Tobu Railway, connect JR [Shinjuku](e3011.html) Station with Kinugawa Onsen Station. The one way journey takes about two hours and costs 4090 yen. All seats are reserved.

Because the trains between Shinjuku and Kinugawa [partially use the tracks](e2368.html) of Tobu Railway, the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) does not fully cover the expenses of the journey. In contrast, the [JR Tokyo Wide Pass](e2361_06.html), [JR East Nagano Niigata Area Pass](e2361_nagano_niigata.html), [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html) and [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html) are valid for the entire trip.

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)(except for the final short section by Tobu Railway)

There are no routes to Kinugawa Onsen that are completely covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html). Instead take the [Tohoku Shinkansen](e2018_tohoku.html) to Utsunomiya (50 minutes, multiple trains per hour) and transfer to the JR Nikko Line to Imaichi Station (35 minutes, 1 train per hour). From there it is a ten minute walk to Shimo-Imaichi Station where you can take a Tobu train to Kinugawa Onsen (25 minutes, 270 yen, 2-3 trains per hour).

Alternatively, stay on the JR Nikko Line to Nikko Station and walk about 200 meters to Tobu Nikko Station. From there, trains depart for Shimo-Imaichi Station where you can transfer to a train bound for Kinugawa Onsen. The trip takes about 30 minutes longer than via the above route, but transferring between trains is easier.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

[Kinugawa Onsen](e3875.html) is located in a narrow valley along the Kinugawa River. The town is served by four Tobu Railway train stations, with Kinugawa Onsen Station as its central station and transportation hub. Most of the major [ryokan](e2029.html) are located between Kinugawa Onsen and Kinugawa Koen stations, and are a short walk or [bus](e2015.html) or [taxi](e2021.html) ride away from either one.

Transportation around Kinugawa Onsen is provided by Tobu [buses](e2015.html), with the main bus terminal in front of Kinugawa Onsen Station. The most relevant bus line connects the station with the town's two largest theme parks, [Tobu World Square](e3878.html) and [Nikko Edomura](e3879.html) every 30 minutes and is covered by many of the [rail passes available for Nikko](e2358_002.html). There is also a bus that connects Kinugawa Onsen Station with the town's lodgings (300 yen, not covered by the rail passes)

Another bus of interest is a free shuttle bus, which operates between [Nikko Edomura](e3879.html) and JR Nikko Station, with some continuing to the Omotesando bus stop at the entrance to [Toshogu Shrine](e3801.html). There are 3-4 round trips per day, but buses do not operate on days when [Edomura](e3879.html) is closed (mainly Wednesdays). The one way trip takes 30 minutes to/from JR Nikko Station.

A few smaller [onsen](e2292.html) towns are located farther up the valley from [Kinugawa Onsen](e3875.html). Kawaji Onsen is less than ten kilometers past Kinugawa Onsen, and the remote, rustic [Yunishigawa Onsen](e3882.html) and [Okukinu Onsen](e3883.html) are located in side valleys further beyond Kawaji Onsen.