---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3103.html
title: Engakuji Temple
description: Visitor guide for Engakuji Temple in Kamakura.
keywords: engakuji, temple, kamakura, zen
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1797
char_count: 12028
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:42:13
---

Sanmon (Main Gate)

Engakuji (円覚寺) is one of the leading Zen temples in eastern Japan and the number two of [Kamakura](e2166.html)'s five great Zen temples. It was founded by the ruling regent [Hojo Tokimune](e2133.html) in the year 1282, one year after the second [invasion attempt by the Mongols](e2133.html) had been reverted. One purpose of the new temple was to pay respect to the fallen Japanese and Mongolian soldiers.

Engakuji is built into the slopes of Kita-Kamakura's forested hills. The first main structure encountered upon entering the temple grounds is the **Sanmon** main gate, which dates from 1783. Behind it stands the [temple](e2058.html)'s main hall, the **Butsuden**, which displays a wooden statue of the Shaka Buddha. The Butsuden was rebuilt relatively recently in 1964 after the former building had been lost in an [earthquake](e2116.html).

Teahouse

Further into the temple grounds, the **Shariden** is a beautifully designed hall in which a tooth of [Buddha](e2055.html) is enshrined. It is designated a national treasure, but can only be seen from a distance during most of the year. Another national treasure found at Engakuji is the temple's large **bell** (ogane). It stands on a hill next to a **teahouse** where visitors can enjoy a cup of [tea](e2041.html), amazake (sweet sake) or [Japanese sweets](e2312.html) in a calm environment.

Engakuji is a popular spot for [autumn colors](e2014.html), which usually reach their peak around early December. The temple entrance, which is surrounded by many maple trees, is a particularly popular photo object.

Engakuji in autumn

Engakuji is a few steps from Kita-Kamakura Station on the JR Yokosuka Line, one station before Kamakura Station when coming from Tokyo.

[How to get to and around Kamakura](e3115.html)