---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3303.html
title: Tokugawa Art Museum
description: Vistor guide for the Tokugawa Art Museum in Nagoya.
keywords: tokugawa, art, museum, nagoya, japan
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2068
char_count: 13447
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:56:23
---

During the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868), [Nagoya](e2155.html) served as the seat of the Owari, one of the three major branches of the ruling [Tokugawa](e2128.html) family. The family amassed great wealth that was only surpassed by four of the 200 feudal domains of the [Edo Period](e2128.html). The Tokugawa Art Museum (徳川美術館, Tokugawa Bijutsukan) was built on the grounds of the Owari's former feudal residence and preserves and exhibits several of their treasures including [samurai](e2127.html) armor and swords, [tea utensils](e2096.html), [noh masks](e2091.html) and costumes, poems, scrolls and maps.

Next to the museum is Tokugawa-en, a beautiful Japanese [landscape garden](e2099.html) with a large pond at its center. The garden used to be part of a retirement residence of the local lords, but was destroyed during the war. It was restored and reopened to the public in 2004. A large network of walking trails lead around the grounds to a tea house, rest houses, and across several bridges. The garden is best in spring, when its Peony (mid to late April) and Iris gardens (late May to early June) bloom, and during the [autumn](e2014.html) season (November).

Tokugawa-en Garden

The museum is a ten minute walk from Ozone Station on the JR Chuo Line, Meijo Subway Line and the Meitetsu Seto Line. Ozone Station is directly connected to Nagoya Station by the frequently operating JR Chuo Line (12 minutes, 210 yen one way).

Furthermore, the museum is also located along the [Meguru loop bus line](e3302.html) for tourists, and can be reached from Nagoya Station in about 35 minutes or from [Nagoya Castle](e3300.html) in about 15 minutes. The fare is 210 yen per ride or 500 yen for a day pass.

[How to get to and around Nagoya](e3302.html)