---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3048.html
title: Tokyo State Guest House (Geihinkan)
description: Visitor guide for the Tokyo State Guest House at Akasaka Palace.
keywords: tokyo, state, guesthouse, geihinkan
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2981
char_count: 21059
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:58:32
---

The Tokyo State Guest House (迎賓館, Geihinkan) is one of two state guest houses of the Japanese government alongside another one in [Kyoto](e2158.html). Contained within the Akasaka Imperial Estate in central [Tokyo](e2164.html), the Tokyo State Guest House serves to accommodate world leaders, diplomats and other guests of honor during their visits to Japan. When not in use, sections of the grand estate are open to the public, with visitors able to explore some of the opulent rooms, picturesque gardens and the Japanese-style annex.

The palace was originally built in 1909 as a residence for the [Crown Prince](e2135.html) and housed several public institutions after World War 2. As Japan received an increasing number of prominent international guests in the [post-war years](e2124.html), the palace was turned into the State Guest House in 1974. At this time the Japanese-style Annex was added.

A samurai warrior statue looks down from the roof of the palace

The **Western-style Palace** building is the State Guests House's most recognizable feature and was constructed in an [architectural style](e2111.html) similar to that of European palaces. In spite of this, the building also features some quintessentially Japanese elements such as [samurai](e2127.html)-themed decorations intended to imbue the building with a Japanese essence.

Inside the palace, visitors can explore the ostentatious rooms, each with its own theme and collectively serving a multitude of purposes such as diplomatic meetings, treaty signings, media interviews and official banquets. The rooms are adorned with a mixture of both Japanese and international art and furniture, including oil paintings and chandeliers. Audio guides are available in multiple languages, allowing for self-guided tours.

A view inside one of the rooms of the Western-style Palace

The **Japanese-style Annex** stands in a separate area of the estate and features a traditional [Japanese garden](e2099.html) with a pond containing Japanese carp. Inside, visitors can view the building's main [Japanese style room](e2007.html) that is used for banquets, meetings and cultural events, a dining room with counter where guests of honor are served [traditional Japanese food](e620.html) and a [tea room](e2096.html).

The palace buildings are surrounded by spacious gravel yards, flower beds, water fountains and green space. Also located within the Akasaka Imperial Estate, but strictly off-limit to the public are the actual residences of some members of the [Imperial Family](e2135.html).

The Japanese-style Annex

The Tokyo State Guest House is located a 5 minute walk from Yotsuya Station, which can be reached by the [JR Chuo Line](e2372.html) from [Tokyo Station](e3037.html) (10 minutes, 180 yen) or [Shinjuku Station](e3011.html) (5 minutes, 170 yen). Yotsuya is also served by the Marunouchi and Namboku subway lines.

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)