---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3209.html
title: Zoorasia
description: Visitor guide for the Zoorasia zoological garden in Yokohama, one of Japan's best zoos.
keywords: zoorasia, zoo, yokohama, japan
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1995
char_count: 13389
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:09:37
---

Zoorasia (ズーラシア) is one of Japan's newest, largest and best kept zoos. The zoo was established in 1999, and since then has been operating under the themes of "Symbiosis of Life" and "Harmony with Nature". The animals are generally kept in spacious areas that mimic their natural habitat to a degree that is not usually seen in Japanese zoos.

The animal exhibitions of Zoorasia are spread out amongst eight ecological areas: Asian Tropical Forest, Subarctic Forest, Oceanian Grassland, Central Asian Highland, Japanese Countryside, Amazon Jungle, African Tropical Rainforest and African Savannah. Among the zoo's highlights are the elephants, polar bears, black bears, okapi and proboscis monkeys. There are also a few restaurants and cafes, as well as nature trails and recreation areas for kids.

Animal enclosure

Zoorasia is located about eight kilometers west of central [Yokohama](e2156.html) and is most easily accessed by Sotetsu Railway or the JR Yokohama Line, followed by [bus](e2015.html) rides.

### By JR Yokohama Line

Zoorasia can be reached by bus from Nakayama Station along the JR Yokohama Line (10 minutes, 180 yen from Shin-Yokohama Station or 20 minutes, 310 yen from Yokohama Station). The bus ride takes about 20 minutes and costs 240 yen one way. There are 2-3 departures per hour. Get off at the Yokohama Dōbutsuen (横浜動物園) bus stop.

### By Sotetsu Railway

The closest station to the zoo is Tsurugamine Station (14 minutes, 210 yen from Yokohama Station, frequent departures; there are also some direct trains from JR Shinjuku Station, Tokyu Shibuya Station and Shin-Yokohama Station) and transfer to a bus bound for the zoo (15 minutes, 240 yen by Sotetsu Bus every 30-45 minutes or 260 yen by Kanagawa Chuo Kotsu bus every 60 minutes). Get off at the Yokohama Dōbutsuen (横浜動物園) bus stop.

[How to get to and around Yokohama](e2360.html)