---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3970.html
title: Shinnyodo Temple
description: Visitor guide for Shinnyodo, a temple of the Tendai Sect in eastern Kyoto
keywords: shinnyodo, temple, kyoto, tendai, buddhism, shinsho, gokurakuji
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3230
char_count: 22402
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:45:04
---

Shinnyodo (真如堂, Shinnyodō) is a [temple](e2058.html) of the [Tendai Sect](e2055.html), established in 984 by a priest from the important [Enryakuji Temple](e3911.html). Off the beaten tracks of [Kyoto](e2158.html), Shinnyodo is a beautiful [autumn color spot](e3953.html) which provides lovely [fall colors](e2014.html) usually around late November, but yet remains relatively less crowded.

The temple's halls were destroyed during the [Onin War](e2126.html) (1467-1477), but fortunately its principle image of Amida Buddha was rescued. After a couple of relocations, this image was once again enshrined at the present location in 1693 when the [temple](e2058.html) was rebuilt. Today, Shinnyodo's premises encompass quite a large area with multiple buildings, including a three-storied pagoda. Most of the temple grounds are free to enter, but a fee is required to enter the inner chamber of the main hall and the [gardens](e2099.html).

In the back of the main hall

Visitors to the main hall's ornately decorated **inner chamber** will immediately notice a large gold leaf canopy, as well as other lavish embellishments and ritual props. The chamber also houses statues of Monju Bodhisattva and Saicho, the founder of [Tendai Buddhism](e2055.html) in Japan. Two huge beautiful paintings are alternately displayed every six months: one depicts the passing of the Historical Buddha while another is a mandala that illustrates the Pure Land of [Pure Land Buddhism](e2055.html).

Also located in the paid zone and connected to the main hall by a corridor, are a few more rooms with elegant paintings on their sliding doors ([fusuma](e2007.html)). From these rooms it is possible to view the temple's **gardens**, including a contemporary dry [garden](e2099.html) which reproduces a Japanese family crest with geometrically arranged stone patterns, and another dry garden that represent the above-mentioned painting of the passing of the Buddha.

Contemporary dry garden

Shinnyodo Temple stands in the same general district as [Ginkakuji](e3907.html) (Silver Pavilion), about a 20 minute walk from Ginkakuji. From [Kyoto Station](e3922.html), it can be reached by Kyoto City [Bus](e2015.html) number 5 in about 35 minutes (230 yen). Get off at the Shinnyodo-mae bus stop from where it is a five minute walk to the temple.

[How to get to and around Kyoto](e2363.html)