---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3060.html
title: Tokyo Night Guide
description: Suggestions of night activities for visitors of Tokyo
keywords: tokyo, night, nightlife, activities, spot, spots, entertainment, evening
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3669
char_count: 26120
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:57:37
---

After sunset, there is no lack of activities to enjoy in [Tokyo](e2164.html). Sightseeing, dining or just chilling out, there is always something for everyone to do. Below are some recommended activities:

### Night views

As dusk falls, the sprawling metropolis of [Tokyo](e2164.html) transforms into a city of bright lights. Many **observation decks** in towers and tall buildings open until around 22:00, providing great vantage points for lovely night views. Recommended [observation decks](e3057.html) are those at the [Tokyo Skytree](e3064.html), [Tokyo Tower](e3009.html), [Roppongi Hills](e3031_hills.html) and [Shibuya Sky](e3007.html#scramble).

In addition, several skyscrapers house [restaurants](e2036.html) on their top floors from where diners can simultaneously enjoy good food and good views of the city. Although usually on the high-end side, **top floor restaurants** are an especially good way of seeing the city views at night after other observation decks close. Some notable districts where top floor restaurants are common include [Marunouchi](e3037.html), [Shiodome](e3030.html) and [Shinjuku](e3011.html).

Another unique way to enjoy the night scenery is to take a **boat cruise** and enjoy the waterfront scenery. Several operators offer 2-3 hour cruises along Tokyo Bay, with prices starting from 8,000 yen with dinner or 4,000 to 5,000 yen without.

### Food

Dining is probably the most heavily indulged in night activity. All over the city, various types of [dining establishments](e2036.html) can be found, from humble [shokudo](e2036_shokudo.html) to a wide range of [izakaya](e2036_izakaya.html) and posh three-star Michelin restaurants. It is impossible to categorize dining locations because they are ubiquitous, but here are some suggested destinations:

[Asakusa](e3004.html) offers many old-fashioned izakaya with an authentic, down-to-earth, traditional Japanese feel. [Shinjuku](e3011.html), [Shiodome](e3030.html) and the [Tokyo Station](e3037.html) area have many high-rise buildings with top floor restaurants which make for great places to enjoy a meal and indulge in the night scenery at the same time. [Yurakucho](e3072.html) has a lively restaurant district built up under the brick arches beneath the elevated train tracks of the [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html).

To experience something unique, visit one of the plethora of **themed restaurants** in Tokyo, such as a [ninja](e2295.html)-themed one in Akasaka, a vampire-themed cafe in [Ginza](e3005.html) and maid cafes in [Akihabara](e3003.html).

### Museums and theme parks

[Museums](e3054.html) usually close around 17:00 and are thus not suitable night destinations in general, although some have extended hours on selected evenings, typically on Fridays and Saturdays. There are also a few museums and aquariums that generally close later, like the [Mori Museum](e3054_art.html#mori), [Sumida Aquarium](e3064_aquarium.html), [Maxell Aqua Park Shinagawa](e3054_zoo.html#epson) and [Sunshine Aquarium](e3038.html#sunshine).

[Disneyland](e3016_land.html) and [DisneySea](e3016_sea.html) are open until around 22:00 on most nights and offer [discounted tickets](e3016_tickets.html) for entry from the late afternoon. Visit the [official website](https://www.tokyodisneyresort.jp/en/tdr/calendar.html) for park operation times.

[Tokyo Dome City](e3039.html) also offers a discounted night pass for its attractions after 17:00. The attractions operate until 21:00. Another destination to consider is [Tokyo Joypolis](e3008.html#decks) at [Odaiba](e3008.html), an indoor amusement park that is open daily until around 20:00.

Sumida Aquarium

### Nightlife districts

[Tokyo](e2164.html)'s best known nightlife districts are [Shinjuku](e3011.html), [Shibuya](e3007.html), [Ginza](e3005.html) and [Roppongi](e3031.html):

Northeast of Shinjuku Station lies [Kabukicho](e3011.html#kabukicho), Japan's largest red light district, with hundreds of hostess clubs, restaurants, bars, nightclubs and massage parlors. Large bill boards and neon signs brightly light the streets. The district is generally safe but adult shops and posters of scantily clad women are not uncommon. Most establishments in Kabukicho target a Japanese clientele, and some charge expensive cover fees. Located in one corner of Kabukicho, [Golden Gai](e3011.html#goldengai) is an old-fashioned district of narrow alleys with many small bars.

[Shibuya](e3007.html) commands a younger local audience, who patronize the numerous nightclubs, bars, dance lounges and [restaurants](e2036.html) that it has to offer. Shibuya is also home to the [Love Hotel Hill](e3007.html#love) with a high concentration of [love hotels](e2031.html). Shibuya is somewhat less seedy and more easily accessible to foreign tourists without Japanese language knowledge than Kabukicho.

[Ginza](e3005.html) is the premium upmarket district, featuring fine dining [restaurants](e2036.html), chic bars and night clubs, as well as upscale host and hostess bars. Expect hefty bills. Note that some establishments are rather exclusive and not easily accessible to foreign visitors without Japanese language skills.

[Roppongi](e3031.html) is the most accessible nightlife district for foreign tourists. A large concentration of foreign-friendly nightclubs, bars and restaurants can be found in the area. Although generally safe, there have been increasing reports of vice and bad practices at Roppongi, such as exorbitant hidden fees charged by bars and clubs, aggressive touting, spiked drinks and fights.

Omotesando

### Night walk

An evening stroll on the streets of [Tokyo](e2164.html) could be a great way to see the city after dusk. The temple precincts of [Sensoji](e3001.html) at [Asakusa](e3004.html) are charming at night with dimly illuminated lanterns. The main hall closes at 17:00, but the temple grounds are always open and are popular among tourists at night.

Those looking for a quiet moment may consider the waterfront area of [Odaiba](e3008.html), which presents an opportunity for a nice walk in the sea breeze, with views of the illuminated Rainbow Bridge. Those looking for some vibrancy in the night but are not interested in clubs or pubs can still walk through the streets of [Shinjuku](e3011.html), [Ginza](e3005.html) or [Shibuya](e3007.html) and enjoy the myriad of neon lights.

Rainbow Bridge seen from Odaiba

### Onsen

Thanks to modern drilling technologies, Tokyo offers several large [hot spring](e2292.html) establishments with a wide selections of baths, relaxation, dining and entertainment options. They are like onsen [theme parks](e2067.html), where visitors pay an entrance fee and are free to dip in any of the hot spring pools as many times as they wish. These hot spring establishments usually open late and are great places to rejuvenate after a day of touring the city.

* 

  LaQua

  Hours: Daily 11:00am to 9:00am the next morning  
  Closed: A small number of irregular closing days  
  Admission: 3230 yen (extra fee on weekends, holidays and after 1am)

  Located at [Tokyo Dome City](e3039.html), LaQua is a popular relaxation oasis in the center of busy [Tokyo](e2164.html), featuring various [hot spring](e2292.html) pools, saunas, relaxation space and massage and beauty services. The hot spring water is brought to the surface from a depth of more than one kilometer. Overnight stays are available.

### Other entertainment

[Tokyo](e2164.html) hosts an amazing range of cultural performances at a countless number of concert halls and theater venues. Throughout the year, international and domestic concerts, recitals, drama and art festivals of every genre can be found on show.

Other forms of night entertainment include game centers, cinemas and [karaoke](e2066.html). Sports entertainment facilities, such as Round 1, offer a wide variety of sports and games under one roof. Many of these establishments open until late at night and feature sports, games and entertainment, including bowling, darts, billiards, table tennis, [karaoke](e2066.html) and more.

Sports entertainment

### Shopping

Most [department stores](e2072.html) and shops close around 20:00. Malls in some districts such as [Odaiba](e3008.html) and [Shibuya](e3007.html) generally close slightly later at 21:00. Large electronics stores like Yamada Denki, Bic Camera and Yodobashi Camera often remain open until 22:00.

### Winter illuminations

[Seasonal illuminations](e2303.html) around [Christmas](e2299.html) have become a popular attraction in cities across Japan. Illuminations are typically displayed from around November to around Christmas or [New Year](e2064.html), while some are kept up until Valentine's Day in February. For more information about popular illumination spots in Tokyo, please visit our [winter illumination page](e2303.html).

Winter Illuminations at Tokyo Midtown


[Read our Tokyo Hotel Guide](/hotels/tokyo.html)