---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3407.html
title: Best cherry blossom spots in Hiroshima (Hiroshima Hanami Spots)
description: A list of popular hanami (cherry blossom viewing) spots in Hiroshima.
keywords: hiroshima, sakura, cherry, blossom, blossoms, hanami, spot, spots
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1849
char_count: 12746
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:41:51
---

Below is a list of [Hiroshima](e2160.html)'s most popular spots for cherry blossom viewing ([hanami](e2011.html)), including the typical timing for best viewing in the average year and japan-guide.com ratings. See also our nationwide list of [famous cherry blossom spots](e2011_where.html).

* 

  [Hiroshima Peace Park•](e3400.html)

  Early April

  Next to Genbaku Domu-mae tram stop  
  No admission fee

  [Hiroshima Peace Park](e3400.html), located in central Hiroshima City, was built to memorialize those who died during the atomic bombing and as a testament towards world peace. There are about 300 cherry trees planted around the park especially along the river.
* 

  [Hiroshima Castle•](e3402.html)

  Early April

  10 minute walk from Kamiyacho-nishi or Kamiyacho-higashi tram stop  
  No admission fee (except interior of castle keep)

  [Hiroshima Castle](e3402.html) is a reconstructed castle with about 450 cherry trees planted around the castle grounds. The best cherry blossom viewing party spots can be found around the castle keep.
* 

  [Shukkeien Garden•](e3403.html)

  Early April

  15 minute walk from Hiroshima Station  
  9:00 to 18:00, 260 yen

  There are about 200 cherry trees planted around [Shukkeien](e3403.html), a Japanese landscape garden in central [Hiroshima](e2160.html). Some lawn areas are available for cherry blossom viewing parties.
* 

  Hijiyama Park

  Early April

  Next to Hijiyama Koen Shita tram stop  
  No admission fee

  Hijiyama Park is a large, forested city park on a hill overlooking the city. There are about 1300 cherry trees planted in small pockets around the park that are popular places among the locals for holding cherry blossom viewing parties.
* 

  [Miyajima••](e3401.html)

  Early April

  45 minutes by train and ferry from Hiroshima Station

  [Miyajima](e3401.html) is a small island outside of Hiroshima that is famous for its shrine and "floating" torii gate. There are about 1300 cherry trees around the shrine and along the island's [walking trails](e3456.html).

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

[How to get to and around Hiroshima](e3404.html)