---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3504.html
title: Tokyo to Himeji\: How to get to and around Himeji
description: How to get to and around Himeji.
keywords: himeji, access, orientation, transportation, shinkansen, bus, getting there, directions
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1730
char_count: 11219
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:32:18
---

From/To:

TokyoOsakaKyotoHiroshima

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

[Tokyo](e2164.html) and [Himeji](e3500.html) are connected with each other by the JR [Tokaido/Sanyo Shinkansen](e2018.html). Nozomi trains require about three hours to reach Himeji Station from [Tokyo](e2164.html), while direct Hikari trains require roughly 3.5 hours. The regular one way fare from Tokyo to Himeji is around 16,000 yen. The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) fully covers Hikari trains, but a supplement fee is required on Nozomi trains.

Multiple bus companies, including [Willer Express](https://willer-travel.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/hyogo/himeji/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184), operate [overnight buses](e2366.html) between [Himeji](e3500.html) and [Tokyo](e2164.html). The one way fare varies between 6,500 and 11,500 yen depending on the company and travel date. Travel time is about 10 hours. Online reservations can be made through [Willer](https://willer-travel.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/hyogo/himeji/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184).

[Book Now](https://willer-travel.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/hyogo/himeji/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184)

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

The broad Otemae-dori Street leads straight from JR Himeji Station to [Himeji Castle](e3501.html). You can walk from the station to the castle's entrance gate in about 15-20 minutes.

Sanyo-Himeji Station, served by Sanyo Railway, is located just a short walk north of JR Himeji Station and provides direct train connections to/from [Osaka](e2157.html)'s Hanshin Umeda Station.

Himeji is also covered by a dense [bus](e2015.html) network that is operated by Shinki Bus and centered around Himeji Station. Shinki Bus number 10 provides easy access to [Mount Shosha](e3503.html). The ten major prepaid [IC cards](e2359_003.html) and the local Nicopa card can be used to pay the fare on Shinki buses.