---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3978.html
title: Ujigami Shrine
description: Visitor guide for the Ujigami Shrine, believed to be the oldest standing shrine in Japan
keywords: ujigami, shrine, uji, kyoto
content_type: attraction
word_count: 353
char_count: 2532
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:06:45
---

Ujigami Shrine's main hall

Ujigami Shrine (宇治上神社, Ujigami Jinja) is believed to be the oldest standing [shrine](e2059.html) in Japan. Although there is no official record of when it was first constructed, it is thought to have been well established by 1060. It was closely linked to [Byodoin Temple](e3923.html) as its "guardian shrine".

Ujigami Shrine became recognized as a [World Heritage Site](e2251.html) in 1994 together with other shrines and [temples](e2058.html) in the [Kyoto](e2158.html) area. The main hall is built in the nagare-zukuri [architectural style](e2111.html), one of the most common shrine architecture styles: a curved asymmetrical roof extends out more on the side of the main entrance than on the opposite side to provide shelter for worshipers.

A hundred meters south of Ujigami Shrine stands Uji Shrine, also built in the nagare-zukuri style. The two shrines used to be one until they were separated during the [Meiji Period](e2130.html) (1868-1912), and used to be referred to as the upper and lower shrine, respectively.

Uji Shrine

Ujigami Shrine is located on the north side of [Uji River](e3980.html) near the Tale of Genji Museum. It takes about ten minutes to walk there from Keihan Uji Station or 15 minutes from JR Uji Station. From [Byodoin Temple](e3923.html), it is about a ten minute walk across the river via a small island connected by bridges.

[How to get to and around Uji](e3976.html)