---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3013.html
title: Toyosu
description: Visitor guide for Toyosu, a district on a man made island in Tokyo Bay.
keywords: toyosu, tokyo, lalaport, kidzania,
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2936
char_count: 20765
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:00:13
---

Lalaport Toyosu

Toyosu (豊洲) is a man-made island in [Tokyo](e2164.html) close to [Odaiba](e3008.html). It was created in the 1930s and later enlarged. The famous [Tsukiji Fish Market](e3021.html) was [relocated to Toyosu in 2018](/news/0042.html) where it reopened as [Toyosu Market](e3013_market.html).

Toyosu also happens to be the site of the first 7-Eleven [convenience store](e2071.html), which opened in Japan in 1974. Around 20,000 7-Eleven stores exist in Japan today.

Located by the waterfront, **Lalaport Toyosu** is one of the largest [shopping](e3053.html) malls in central [Tokyo](e2164.html). Lalaport has many shops carrying popular international brands as well as local favorites. The mall also offers numerous restaurants, a cinema and a promenade by the sea, providing a relaxing atmosphere for visitors.

One popular destination at Lalaport is **Kidzania**, an indoor [theme park](e2067.html) for [children](e2460.html) (aged 3-15) to play-act as different professionals like cooks or pilots. Its entrance is interestingly designed like an airport boarding gate, giving kids the impression of entering into a different world upon passing through it. Adults are allowed to enter only if they are accompanying a child.

First 7-Eleven store in Japan opened in 1974

Toyosu Station is served by the Yurikamome and by the Yurakucho Subway Line. Lalaport is a five minute walk from Toyosu Station. [Sightseeing boats](e3042.html) stop at the pier at Lalaport.

### By Yurikamome

The Yurikamome is an automated, elevated train with rubber tires, which connects Shimbashi Station on the [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html) with [Odaiba](e3008.html) and Toyosu. Trains depart every few minutes, and a ride between Shimbashi and Toyosu takes 30 minutes and costs 390 yen. If you ride the Yurikamome more than twice, a 1-day pass for 820 yen is likely to pay off.

### By subway

The Yurakucho Subway Line connects Toyosu to [Yurakucho](e3072.html) (8 minutes, 180 yen) and to [Ikebukuro](e3038.html) (30 minutes, 260 yen) on the [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html). If coming from [Tokyo Station](e3037.html), take the JR Yamanote Line to Yurakucho (2 minutes, 150 yen) and change to the Yurakucho Line.

### By boat

On selected days, a few [sightseeing boats](e3042.html) operate from [Odaiba](e3008.html) to [Asakusa](e3004.html), stopping at Toyosu along the way (but not in the opposite direction). The one way ride from Odaiba to Toyosu takes 20 minutes and costs 1000 yen, while that from Toyosu to Asakusa takes 40 minutes and costs 1400 yen.

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)