---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3932.html
title: Ohara
description: Visitor guide for Ohara, a rural district north of downtown Kyoto that is best known for Sanzenin Temple.
keywords: ohara, kyoto, sanzenin, sanzen, temple, rural, jakkoin, jakko
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3872
char_count: 26567
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:43:32
---

Ohara (大原, Ōhara) is a rural town nestled in the mountains of [northern Kyoto](e2158_north.html), about one hour from [Kyoto Station](e3922.html), but still technically located within Kyoto's city limits. Ohara is best known for [Sanzenin Temple](e3955.html) and particularly popular in mid November during the [autumn leaf](e2014.html) season, which typically occurs about one week earlier than in central [Kyoto](e2158.html).

[Sanzenin Temple](e3955.html) is located part way up the forested mountains in the east of Ohara. It is a large temple with a variety of buildings and gardens, and was established in the early [Heian Period](e2132.html) (794-1185) by the great monk Saicho, who founded the Tendai sect of [Japanese Buddhism](e2055.html). The path from the town to the temple is lined with numerous small shops. One of the local specialties on sale are aisu kyuri, cucumbers pickled in seaweed-flavored ice water and served on a stick.

Shops along the main approach to Sanzenin

The temples surrounding Sanzenin also belong to the Tendai sect. They are quite small and typically have only a couple of buildings or a [garden](e2099.html). If you follow the walking trail behind the temples further into the forested mountain, you will eventually get to [Otonashi Waterfall](e3932.html#otonashinotaki).

There are also a few attractions on the hillside on the opposite side of the valley, although there is generally less to see. [Jakkoin Temple](e3932.html#jakkoin), another temple of the Tendai sect, is the area's main attraction. The temple has a long history, but unfortunately had to be rebuilt in the early 2000s after an arsonist burned down the main building. The area has a few shops, but not as many as around Sanzenin.

In 2004 drilling took place in Ohara that allowed the town's [ryokan](e2029.html) (Japanese inns) to access [hot spring water](e2292.html) from over a kilometer deep within the earth. There are two ryokan near Jakkoin and one near Sanzenin where visitors can stay overnight, enjoying hot spring water [baths](e2292_how.html) after a day of sightseeing. For travelers with less time, the baths are also open to day trippers in combined lunch and bath sets.

### Main temples

* 

  [Sanzenin Temple](e3955.html)

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (from 8:30 in November, until 16:30 from December to February); admission ends 30 minutes before closing  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Fee: 700 yen

  [Sanzenin Temple](e3955.html) is the main attraction of Ohara, around which most of the town's tourist activity is centered. The temple has a number of temple buildings, gardens and walking paths to explore. A highly valued statue of the Amida Buddha from the 900s is on display.
* 

  Jakkoin Temple

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (until 16:30 from December to February)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Fee: 600 yen

  Jakkoin was founded around the year 600 and is noted for having served as the nunnery of a former empress. A long flight of stairs leads up to the temple gate, which is particularly attractive during the autumn. Unfortunately, the main hall burnt down in 2000, but it has since been rebuilt and holds a statue of the Buddhist deity Jizo.

### Minor temples and sights

* 

  Hosenin Temple

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Fee: 900 yen (includes green tea and Japanese sweet)

  Hosenin is a small temple with attractive gardens, the most impressive of which has a large, carefully pruned 700 year old pine tree. Visitors can admire the tree from a [tatami](e2007.html) room while being served [tea](e2041.html). There is also a strolling garden with large stones and a maple tree that is impressive during the fall.
* 

  Shorinin Temple

  Hours: 9:00 to 16:00 (until 16:30 in November)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Fee: 300 yen

  The temple was founded in 1013 and served as a location of practicing the Shomyo-style of Buddhist chanting imported from China. The present main hall was built during the mid-[Edo Period](e2128.html) and holds the temple's main object of worship, a statue of the Amida Buddha.
* 

  Jikkoin Temple

  Hours: 9:00 to 16:00 (until 16:30 in November)  
  Closed: January 1  
  Fee: 500 yen (plus 300 yen for green tea and Japanese sweet)

  Located just across from Sanzenin, Jikkoin is another temple with an attractive garden. Jikkoin's garden features a pond, shrubs and a variety of flowering plants. There are small walking paths, but the garden is best enjoyed from the temple building while seated on [tatami](e2007.html).
* 

  Raigoin Temple

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Fee: 400 yen

  Located quite deep in the forest, away from the shops and large crowds gives, Raigoin comes with an especially tranquil atmosphere. The temple was founded in the mid 9th century, its main hall and bell tower date back to the [Muromachi Period](e2134.html) (1333-1573) and a small stone pagoda was built in the [Kamakura Period](e2133.html) (1192-1333).
* 

  Otonashi no Taki

  About a 10 minute walk from Sanzenin, Otonashi no Taki is an attractive waterfall located in the forest behind Ohara. Signs along walking paths clearly mark the way, so visitors don't need to worry about getting lost. The waterfall itself is like a stream that quietly trickles down the rocks. Otonashi no Taki is Japanese for "waterfall without sound", and according to legend the sound of the waterfall is gone because it fused with the sound of the nearby monks chanting.

From [Kyoto Station](e3922.html), the fastest way to reach Ohara is to take the Karasuma Subway Line to its terminal station Kokusaikaikan (20 minutes, 290 yen) and then Kyoto Bus number 19 to Ohara (20 minutes, 400 yen, every 20 minutes). Alternatively, Kyoto Bus number 17 provides a direct connection from Kyoto Station to Ohara (60 minutes, 630 yen, every 30 minutes) via Shijo-Kawaramachi (45 minutes, 590 yen).

[How to get to and around Kyoto](e2363.html)