---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3777.html
title: Tokyo to Towada\: How to get to and around Towada
description: About access, orientation and transportation around Towada.
keywords: lake, towada, towadako, access, orientation, transportation, guide, travel, directions, bus, ship
content_type: attraction
word_count: 672
char_count: 4954
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:28:33
---

From/To:

TokyoOsakaKyotoAomoriHachimantai

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

Take a Hayabusa train on the [JR Tohoku Shinkansen](e2018_tohoku.html) from [Tokyo](e2164.html) to Hachinohe (3 hours, about 16,500 yen, hourly departures, seat reservations required) and change to a JR bus bound for Towadako (135 minutes, 3,050 yen, 2 buses per day, [seat reservations](https://willer-travel.com/en/campaign/bus-oirase/?aid=184) are required when riding the bus from Hachinohe). The bus makes stops along the [Oirase Stream](e3775.html) before terminating in Yasumiya, and operates only from April to mid November. Buses do not operate in winter! The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html) are valid on the JR buses, but the [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html) and [JR Tohoku South Hokkaido Rail Pass](e2361_tohoku_hokkaido.html) are not.

JAL operates multiple [flights](e2365.html) per day between [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s [Haneda Airport](e2430.html) and Aomori Airport. The flight takes around 85 minutes, and the regular fare is about 44,000 yen one way. [Discount tickets](e2364.html) are typically available for around 16,000 yen.

From the airport take a bus to Aomori Station (35 minutes, 860 yen), and transfer to a JR bus bound for Towadako, which stops along the [Oirase Stream](e3775.html) before terminating in Yasumiya. The one way bus ride takes about 2.5 hours and costs 3,480 [yen](e2196.html). There are 2-3 departures per day from April to mid November. During winter, bus service is provided only between [Aomori](e3750.html) and [Mount Hakkoda](e3780.html) (Sukayu Onsen). The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html) are valid on the JR buses, but the [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html) and [JR Tohoku South Hokkaido Rail Pass](e2361_tohoku_hokkaido.html) are not.

Airfares from Tokyo to Aomori over the next 30 days

December 23, 2025 - January 21, 2026

| Airline | Lowest fare | Average lowest fare |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [JAL](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=AOJ&outboundDate=2026-01-19&airlines=JL) | [10,130 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=AOJ&outboundDate=2026-01-19&airlines=JL) | [16,261 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=AOJ&outboundDate=2026-01-19&airlines=JL) |

[Book Now](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&locale=en-GB&origin=TYO&destination=AOJ&outboundDate=2026-01-13)

Many roads in the area around [Lake Towada](e3778.html) and [Mount Hakkoda](e3780.html) get closed during winter (typically from late November to around April), including the road between Lake Towada and Mount Hakkoda. However, Lake Towada remains accessible by car from Hachinohe via the [Oirase Stream](e3775.html) around the year. Likewise, the road from Aomori to Mount Hakkoda remains open around the year. Winter driving skills are required during the winter months. [Car rental](e2024.html) outlets can be found at Hachinohe and Shin-Aomori Station.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

The small town of **Yasumiya** is the only major development along the shores of [Lake Towada](e3778.html). Yasumiya serves as the area's transportation hub with both the boat pier and the Towadako [bus stop](e2015.html). The rest of Lake Towada is largely undeveloped save the occasional residence, hotel and viewpoint, and a few tourist facilities at Nenokuchi for visitors to the [Oirase Stream](e3775.html).

The main means of public transportation are the **JR buses**, which operate between Yasumiya (Towadako bus stop), Nenokuchi, the [Oirase Stream](e3775.html) and either [Aomori City](e3750.html) or Hachinohe; however, they do not operate in winter from mid November through March. The [buses](e2015.html) are covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html), but not by the [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html) and [JR Tohoku South Hokkaido Rail Pass](e2361_tohoku_hokkaido.html). [Seat reservations](https://willer-travel.com/en/campaign/bus-oirase/?aid=184) are required when boarding buses from Hachinohe in the direction of Lake Towadako, but not on other buses.

Furthermore, there are [boat connections](e3778.html) between Yasumiya and Nenokuchi outside of winter.

A [car](e2024.html) is the only option available if you wish to travel around the whole lake. Note that some roads are closed during winter, and that cars are restricted along the [Oirase Stream](e3775.html) on certain days during the autumn leaf season. Rental car outlets can be found in Hachinohe, [Aomori City](e3750.html), Aomori Airport and central Towada City, but note, that central Towada City is located quite distant from Lake Towada.