---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3778.html
title: Lake Towada (Towadako)
description: Visitor guide for Lake Towada (Towadako).
keywords: lake, towada, towadako, cruise, ship, boat
content_type: attraction
word_count: 359
char_count: 2748
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:28:35
---

Lake Towada (十和田湖, Towadako) is the largest caldera lake on Honshu, Japan's main island. It is characterized by two large peninsulas, which extend nearly a third of the way across the lake. Towadako is a popular [autumn colors](e2014.html) destination together with the [Oirase Stream](e3775.html), which flows out of the lake at its eastern shore.

Lake Towada is surrounded by a steep, forested caldera rim that rises several hundred meters above the lake's surface. Towadako's shores remain largely undeveloped with the exception of the small town of Yasumiya. Besides serving as a transportation hub, **Yasumiya** offers a few minor attractions, including the Towada Shrine, a small nature museum, and a statue depicting young [Tohoku](/list/e1102.html) women, installed to commemorate the area's designation as a national park.

Statue of young women

The best way to see the lake is by **sightseeing boats**, which offer close-up views of the peninsulas that are otherwise difficult to see. Boats operate along two different courses: on a circular course that starts and ends in Yasumiya, and between Yasumiya and Nenokuchi. Both cruises take about 50 minutes and do not operate during winter.

Alternatively, a road leads around the lake with several **observation decks** and panoramic views along the way. A [rental car](e2024.html) is required to circle the lake entirely, because [buses](e2015.html) operate only between Yasumiya and Nenokuchi, before running down along the Oirase Stream and then continuing to either [Aomori](e3750.html) or Hachinohe.

Sightseeing cruise

[How to get to and around Towada](e3777.html)