---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3961.html
title: Myoshinji Temple
description: Visitor guide for Myoshinji, a Buddhist temple in Kyoto.
keywords: myoshinji, temple, kyoto, myoshin
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3487
char_count: 24100
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:44:04
---

Myoshinji (妙心寺, Myōshinji) is a large [temple](e2058.html) complex in northwestern [Kyoto](e2158.html), which includes about 50 subtemples in addition to its main buildings. While a few of the temple halls can be entered, the majority of the subtemples are closed to the public. However, visitors are free to wander along the walking paths. In several ways, the temple resembles [Daitokuji Temple](e3910.html).

Within the Rinzai sect of [Zen Buddhism](e2055.html), Myoshinji is the head temple of the Myoshinji school with over 3000 affiliated temples and calls itself the largest of all Zen temples. Myoshinji was founded in 1337 when an abdicated [emperor](e2135.html) had an imperial villa converted into a Zen temple.

One of the many walking paths between subtemples

The main buildings of Myoshinji are located near the temple's southern gate near Hanazono Station. Situated in a row one after another are the Sanmon Gate, the Butsuden Hall, the Hatto Hall and the Ohojo building. The **Sanmon Gate** and **Butsuden Hall** are both considered important cultural properties but can be observed only from the outside.

The **Hatto Hall** can be entered for an admission fee and features a giant painting of a dragon on its ceiling that looks different depending on the angle it is viewed from. On display is also one of Japan's oldest temple bells, dating back to the 7th century.

Of Myoshinji's many subtemples, three are open to the public throughout the year and a few others are occasionally open. Some of the closed temples leave their front gate open so that a glimpse can be taken at their inner gardens. Walking along the many paths that connect the buildings is a nice way to enjoy the temple atmosphere. Although detached from the rest of the temple grounds today, nearby [Ryoanji](e3909.html) is also one of Myoshinji's subtemples.

Taizoin's pond garden

**Taizoin Temple** is the most famous of the subtemples on Myoshinji's main grounds. The temple's beautiful pond garden was constructed during the mid 1960s and is considered one of the best gardens of the [Showa Period](e2129.html) (1926-1989). Its rock garden was designed in the 1400s by the famous painter Kano Motonobu. The temple also holds a highly valued painting from the 1400s that depicts a Buddhist parable of a man trying to catch a fish with a gourd.

The other two subtemples that are regularly open to the public are not as large or well known as Taizoin, but offer visitors a quiet and pleasant atmosphere. **Keishunin Temple** has a number of gardens that visitors can walk out into, and there is an attractive tea room that makes for a relaxing spot to enjoy the scenery. **Daishinin Temple** is the smallest of the four subtemples, but has an attractive rock garden, a garden of peonies and some simple temple rooms.

The view from Keishunin's tea room

The temple grounds of Myoshinji are a five minute walk from JR Hanazono Station (10 minutes, 200 yen from [Kyoto Station](e3922.html)) or a three minute walk from Myoshinji Station along the Keifuku Kitano Line. [Ryoanji Temple](e3909.html) is a 10-15 minute walk from Myoshinji.

[How to get to and around Kyoto](e2363.html)