---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3304.html
title: Sakae
description: Visitor guide for Sakae, Nagoya's downtown district.
keywords: sakae, nagoya, downtown
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2401
char_count: 15758
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:56:18
---

[Nagoya](e2155.html)'s downtown district, Sakae (栄), is located about two kilometers east of [Nagoya Station](e3305.html). It offers multiple [department stores](e2072.html) and malls catering to all kind of [shoppers](e2450.html), as well as a plethora of [dining](e3315.html) options.

Some green space in the downtown area is provided by the [Hisaya Odori Park](#park), a more than one kilometer long city park in the median of the Hasaya Odori Street that leads through Sakae from south to north. The northern part of the park around the [television tower](#tvtower) was recently renovated into an attractive outdoor shopping and dining area.

### Places of interest

* 

  Mirai Tower (Nagoya TV Tower)

  Hours: 10:00 to 21:00 (until 21:40 on Saturdays)  
  Admission: 1300 yen

  Sakae's landmark is the TV Tower which was completed in 1954 as the first TV tower of its kind in Japan. The tower underwent some major renovations from 2019 to 2020 when a [hotel](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/the-tower-nagoya.html?aid=371183) was added to the lower floors and the tower was rebranded as Chubu Electric Power Mirai Tower. Standing 180 meters tall, the tower has an observation deck 100 meters above ground, which has since been surpassed by [Midland Square](e3311.html) and its observation deck at 220 meters.
* 

  Hisaya Odori Park

  Opening hours vary by restaurant; typically 11:00 to 22:00

  Hisaya Odori Park is an over one kilometer long park area in the median of a main street that runs through Sakae. In 2020, the northern part of the park was transformed into an outdoor shopping mall with about three dozen attractive restaurants and shops among the green space and the [television tower](#tvtower).
* 

  Oasis 21

  Roof access: 10:00 to 21:00  
  Shops: typically 10:00 to 21:00  
  Restaurants: typically 10:00 to 22:00

  Another Sakae landmark is the futuristic-looking Oasis 21 complex, which was opened in 2002. Oasis 21 accommodates Nagoya's [highway bus](e2366.html) terminal and several shops and restaurants. Various events are held on the "Milky Way Square", the public space below the building's intriguing "Water Spaceship" roof, which is also accessible to the public and features a large pool of water.

### Shopping

In addition to the malls and [department stores](e2072.html) listed below, the other big names in the Sakae district are Maruei and Skyle, and Parco. There are also a number of high-end fashion boutiques located within the area.

* 

  Sunshine Sakae

  Shops: Hours vary by shop; typically from 11:00 to 21:00  
  Restaurants: typically from 11:00 to 23:00  
  Ferris wheel: 12:00 to 22:00, 600 yen

  The most distinguishable feature of this shopping and entertainment complex is its 52 meter tall Ferris wheel, named Sky Boat, that is accessed from the third floor. The complex also houses the theater of SKE48, the Nagoya version of the AKB48 idol group. Advance reservations are required to view the group's performances.
* 

  Matsuzakaya

  Hours: typically 10:00 to 20:00 (shopping), 11:00 to 22:00 (restaurants)

  Matsuzakaya is a major [department store](e2072.html) chain that is based in Nagoya. Its flagship store occupies almost three blocks of the Sakae district. Its multiple buildings are connected by bridges as well as by an underground passageway. In addition to the usual clothing, interior, food and restaurant departments, the complex also has a Pokemon Center on the 5th floor of the main building.
* 

  Mitsukoshi / Lachic

  Mitsukoshi: 10:00 to 20:00  
  Lachic: 11:00 to 21:00 (restaurants until 22:00)

  Owned by the same company, Mitsukoshi and Lachic occupy two blocks in the Sakae district. Mitsukoshi is an 11-story [department store](e2072.html) with a restaurant floor and a basement food floor. Lachic is a shopping mall with many trendy shops and cafes. The two buildings are joined by bridges on the third and sixth floors, as well as by an underground passageway.

Sakae is a five minute subway ride (Higashiyama Line to Sakae Station or Sakuradori Line to Hisayaodori Station, 210 yen) or a 20-30 minute walk east of Nagoya Station.

[How to get to and around Nagoya](e3302.html)