---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3879.html
title: Edo Wonderland Nikko Edomura
description: Visitor guide for Edo Wonderland Nikko Edomura, a theme park in Kinugawa Onsen.
keywords: nikko, edo, edomura, wonderland, wonder, land, theme, park, themepark, kinugawa, onsen
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1960
char_count: 12720
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:05:44
---

Edo Wonderland Nikko Edomura is a [theme park](e2067.html) recreating town life during the [Edo Period (1603-1868)](e2128.html). The park's town is built in Edo style architecture and populated by townspeople in period costume, and has been used as the setting for period TV dramas. Park guests have the opportunity to dress up as well (costumes can be rented for a fee) and tour the town's historically based shops and museums, participate in games and see live shows and theater.

There are various shops and restaurants around Edo Wonderland, most of which sell souvenirs such as teapots, woodblock prints and toy weapons. Other shops however, are replica storefronts, which show how craftsmen worked. In addition, it is possible to participate in various hands-on experiences, including a shamisen workshop and an archery range.

Ninja Trick Maze

Other attractions around town include a haunted temple filled with Japanese spirits and demons, and a [ninja](e2295.html) training hall where the walls seem to bend and balls roll uphill. One of the best attractions is the Ninja Trick Maze, a labyrinth that is definitely a challenge to escape from.

Finally, visitors to Edo Wonderland should not miss one of the park's live shows held multiple times daily at various theaters around the town. Performances vary from comic shows and traditional water magic, to live action, including the popular Grand Ninja Theater, where sword battles, magic and martial arts are part of the show.

Open-air Live Action Theater

Tobu operates buses every 30 minutes between Kinugawa Onsen Station and Nikko Edomura (Edo Wonderland). The trip takes 20 minutes, costs 490 yen one way and is covered by the [Nikko All Area Pass](e2358_002.html).

Additionally, a free shuttle bus operates between Nikko Edomura and JR Nikko Station 3-4 times per day on days when Edomura is open. The trip takes 30 minutes, and some buses also stop at the Omotesando bus stop at the entrance to [Toshogu Shrine](e3801.html).

[How to get to and around Kinugawa Onsen](e3876.html)