---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3939.html
title: Kitano Tenmangu Shrine
description: Visitor guide for Kitano Tenmangu Shrine in Kyoto.
keywords: kitano, tenmangu, shrine, kyoto, flea, market, plum, plums
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3340
char_count: 23136
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:44:58
---

Kitano Tenmangu Shrine (北野天満宮, Kitano Tenmangū) is one of the most important of several hundred [shrines](e2059.html) across Japan that are dedicated to Sugawara Michizane, a scholar and politician who was unfairly exiled by his political rivals. A number of disasters were attributed to Michizane's vengeful spirit after his death in exile, and these shrines were built to appease him.

Sugawara Michizane is associated with Tenjin, the [kami](e2056.html) ("Shinto god") of education. Consequently, many students visit Kitano Tenmangu to pray for success in their studies, and the shrine can become especially crowded with students during exam seasons.

Plum Grove

Michizane loved [plum trees](e2013.html), and one tree, called tobiume or flying plum tree, is said to have followed him from Kyoto to his exile in [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html). Because of this, a plum tree can always be found standing in front of the offering hall of Tenmangu shrines.

In addition to the tobiume tree, Kitano Tenmangu features an entire grove of nearly 2000 plum trees, which bloom from February to March. The shrine hosts a special [tea ceremony](e2096.html), called Baikasai, in this plum grove every February 25, attended by [maiko and geiko](e2102.html) of the nearby Kamishichiken geiko district.

Maple trees in the garden of Kitano Tenmangu

Kitano Tenmangu is also a popular [autumn color spot](e3953.html), as the shrine opens its garden to the public during the peak of the autumn leaf season from late October to early December. Hundreds of maple trees line the garden's river and are lit up in the evenings.

Last but not least, a flea market is held on the shrine grounds and surrounding streets on the 25th of every month. Hundreds of vendors selling plants, antiques, tools, toys and crafts are joined by many food stands selling festival food such as yakisoba, karaage and [takoyaki](e2316.html).

Flea market

Kitano Tenmangu Shrine can be reached directly by Kyoto City Bus number 50 from [Kyoto Station](e3922.html) (230 yen, 30 minutes). An indirect but perhaps quicker route during rush hours is to take the Karasuma Subway Line to Imadegawa Station and catch bus 203 to the shrine. In either case get off at the Kitano Tenmangu-mae bus stop.

[How to get to and around Kyoto](e2363.html)