---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3019.html
title: Ueno Park
description: Visitor guide for Ueno Park in Tokyo.
keywords: ueno, park, koen, tokyo, museum, pond, cherry, museums, national, zoo
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3379
char_count: 24008
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:58:50
---

Tokyo National Museum

Ueno Park (上野公園, Ueno Kōen) is a large public [park](e3034.html) next to Ueno Station in central [Tokyo](e2164.html). The park grounds were originally part of **Kaneiji Temple**, which used to be one of the city's largest and wealthiest [temples](e2058.html) and a family temple of the ruling Tokugawa clan during the [Edo Period](e2128.html). Kaneiji stood in the northeast of the capital to protect the city from evil, much like [Enryakuji Temple](e3911.html) in [Kyoto](e2158.html).

During the Boshin Civil War, which followed the [Meiji Restoration](e2128.html) in 1868, Kaneiji suffered nearly complete destruction in a battle between the victorious forces of the new [Meiji government](e2130.html) and loyalists of the overthrown [shogunate](e2128.html). After the battle, the temple grounds were converted into one of Japan's first Western-style parks and opened to the public in 1873. A **statue of Saigo Takamori**, one of the generals in the Battle of Ueno, stands near the park's southern entrance.

Ueno Park during the cherry blossom season

At the southwestern end of the park lies **Shinobazu Pond**, one of many reminders of Kaneiji Temple's former grandeur. The pond represents Lake Biwako (in a reference to Kaneiji's model, the [Enryakuji Temple](e3911.html) of [Kyoto](e2158.html), which overlooks Lake Biwako). On an island in the middle of the pond stands [Bentendo](#bentendo), a temple hall dedicated to the goddess of Benten.

Today Ueno Park is famous for the **many museums** found on its grounds, especially the [Tokyo National Museum](#national), the [National Museum for Western Art](#western), the [Tokyo Metropolitan Art Museum](#metropolitan) and the [National Science Museum](#science). It is also home to [Ueno Zoo](#zoo), Japan's first zoological garden.

Additionally, Ueno Park is one of Tokyo's most popular and lively [cherry blossom spots](e3050.html) with more than 1000 [cherry trees](e2011.html) lining its central pathway. The **cherry blossoms** are usually in bloom during late March and early April and attract large numbers of [hanami parties](e2011_how.html).

### Temples and shrines

* 

  Kaneiji Temple

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free

  During the [Edo Period](e2128.html) Kaneiji Temple was one of the largest and wealthiest temples in the city. It was destroyed during the Boshin War, and remnants of the original temple complex, such as its five storied pagoda and Toshogu Shrine, are scattered around the park. The current Kaneiji is a relatively unremarkable, small temple located in a quiet neighborhood near the northwest corner of Ueno Park.
* 

  Kiyomizu Kannon Temple

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free

  Kiyomizu Kannondo was originally built in 1631 as part of [Kaneiji Temple](#kaneiji). Its design, including a wooden balcony extending from the hillside, was inspired by [Kiyomizudera](e3901.html) in [Kyoto](e2158.html). The temple is home to an image of Kosodate Kannon, the goddess of conception, and is particularly popular among women hoping to have children.
* 

  Toshogu Shrine

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:30 (until 16:30 from October to February)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free (inner shrine area 500 yen)

  Ueno Toshogu Shrine was built in 1616 and is one of numerous [shrines](e2059.html) across the country that are dedicated to [Tokugawa Ieyasu](e2128.html), the founder of the Edo Shogunate. The shrine used to be incorporated into [Kaneiji Temple](#kaneiji) until 1868. The shrine's peony garden is open from January to mid February and from mid April to early May (1000 yen).
* 

  Bentendo Hall

  Hours: 7:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free

  Bentendo is an octagonal temple hall on an island in Shinobazu Pond at the southern end of the park. The temple is dedicated to Benten, the goddess of good fortune, wealth, music and knowledge. Bentendo's grounds are especially lively during the [cherry blossom season](e2011.html) when they are crowded with festival food stalls.

### Museums and zoos

* 

  [Tokyo National Museum](e3054_tokyo.html)

  Hours: 9:30 to 17:00 (until 19:00 on Fri and Sat)  
  Closed: Mondays (or following day if Monday is a [holiday](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission: 1000 yen

  The oldest and largest museum in Japan, the [Tokyo National Museum](e3054_tokyo.html) is made up of multiple buildings, each like a separate museum in itself. They house the largest collection of national treasures and important cultural items in the country.
* 

  National Museum of Nature and Science

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: Mondays (or following day if Mon is a [holiday](e2062.html)), Dec 28 to Jan 1  
  Admission: 630 yen

  This museum covers both science and natural history with hands-on physics and robotics experiments, an impressive collection of mounted animals and a 360 degree virtual theater.
* 

  Tokyo Metropolitan Art Museum

  Hours: 9:30 to 17:30 (until 20:00 on Fridays)  
  Closed: 1st and 3rd Mon each month or next day if Mon is a [holiday](e2062.html), [New Year](e2276.html)  
  Admission: Varies by exhibition

  The Tokyo Metropolitan Art Museum displays all types of art in its six galleries. There is no permanent collection, but multiple concurrently held temporary exhibitions by various art groups. Some exhibitions are paid, others are free.
* 

  National Museum of Western Art

  Hours: 9:30 to 17:30 (until 20:00 on Fri and Sat)  
  Closed: Mondays (or following day if Mon is a [holiday](e2062.html)), Dec 28 to Jan 1  
  Admission: 500 yen

  This museum displays Western art, primarily by European artists. There are rotating exhibitions from the museum's collection as well as temporary special exhibitions. The museum is Japan's only building designed by Le Corbusier and has been designated a [World Heritage](e2251.html) site alongside a few other buildings designed by the pioneer of modern architecture.
* 

  Shitamachi Museum

  Hours: 9:30 to 16:30 (entry until 16:00)  
  Closed: Mondays (or following day if Mon is a [holiday](e2062.html)), Dec 29 to Jan 3  
  Admission: 300 yen

  Shitamachi is the name of the artisan and merchant part of old Tokyo. This nostalgic museum has exhibits and reconstructions that show life in Tokyo from the late [Meiji](e2130.html) to early [Showa](e2129.html) periods.
* 

  Ueno Zoo

  Hour: 9:30 to 17:00 (entry until 16:00)  
  Closed: Mondays (or following day if Mon is a [holiday](e2062.html)), Dec 29 to Jan 1  
  Admission: 600 yen (free admission on March 20, May 4 and October 1)

  Opened in 1882, Ueno Zoo is Japan's oldest [zoo](e2464.html). Its most popular residents are giant panda bears, which first moved here in 1972 on the occasion of the normalization of Japan-China relations.

Ueno Park is next to JR Ueno Station. Easiest access is provided by the station's "Park Exit".

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)