---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3401.html
title: What to do on Miyajima Island
description: Travel guide for Miyajima island and Itsukushima Shrine near Hiroshima, Japan.
keywords: miyajima, guide, itsukushima, travel, tourism, sightseeing, tourist, visitor, information
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1878
char_count: 13245
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:41:39
---

Miyajima (宮島) is a small island less than an hour outside the city of [Hiroshima](e2160.html). It is most famous for its giant [torii gate](e2059.html), which at high tide seems to float on the water. The sight is ranked as one of Japan's [three best views](e2250.html).

While officially named Itsukushima, the island is more commonly referred to as Miyajima, [Japanese](e621.html) for "shrine island". This is because the island is so closely related to its key shrine, [Itsukushima Shrine](e3450.html). Like the torii gate, the shrine's main buildings are built over water.

Miyajima is a romantic place, best enjoyed by staying overnight at one of the island's [ryokan](e2029.html). While there are usually many daytime tourists, in the evening the area becomes much quieter and more peaceful. There are also wild deer on the island that have become accustomed to people. In the day the deer wander around the same sites as the tourists, and in the evening they sleep along the [walking paths](e3456.html). Unlike in [Nara](e2165.html), the deer on Miyajima must not be fed.

* [](/e/e3450.html)

  1

  Shrine

  [Itsukushima Shrine•••](/e/e3450.html)

  Famous shrine with floating torii gate.

  4.6

  

  2,283
* [](/e/e3451.html)

  2

  Nature

  [Mount Misen•](/e/e3451.html)

  The island's highest mountain.

  4.4

  

  1,090
* [](/e/e3453.html)

  3

  Temple

  [Daisho-in Temple•](/e/e3453.html)

  Buddhist temple at the foot of Misen.

  4.2

  

  1,289
* [](/e/e3452.html)

  4

  Temple

  [Senjokaku•](/e/e3452.html)

  Large wooden hall built by Hideyoshi.

  3.8

  

  705
* [](/e/e3456.html)

  5

  Hiking

  [Walking Trails](/e/e3456.html)

  Leading around town and up Misen.

  4.3

  

  1,083
* [](/e/e3455.html)

  6

  Museum

  [Museum of History](/e/e3455.html)

  Housed in a former merchant residence.

  3.6

  

  179
* [](/e/e3457.html)

  7

  Zoo/Wildlife

  [Miyajima Aquarium](/e/e3457.html)

  Nice aquarium at the far end of the town.

  3.3

  

  133

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Miyajima](/e/e3401.html)

[Getting to and around Miyajima](/e/e3454.html)
[See access info](/e/e3454.html)

[

1 Day

Island Views

Miyajima Full Day Walk

* Historic **Itsukushima Shrine**
* Ocean views from **Mount Misen**
* Peaceful **Momijidani Park**

View itinerary](e3458_miyajima_full.html)