---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3605.html
title: Merchant District
description: Visitor guide for Kakunodate's well preserved merchant district.
keywords: kakunodate, merchant, district, ando, miso, nishinomiya
content_type: attraction
word_count: 403
char_count: 3027
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:24:22
---

Ando Miso storehouse

[Kakunodate](e3601.html) was established as a castle town in 1620 under the authority of Ashina Yoshikatsu, a local lord. At that time, the town layout was designed to reflect a division between the [samurai district](e3602.html) and the merchant district. Although the samurai district is better known to tourists, the merchant district also claims some interesting buildings and history.

The most impressive building in the district is **Ando Jozo Miso** storehouse and shop. The [Meiji Period](e2130.html) brick storehouse is a beautifully preserved structure, while the shop sells miso and soy sauce, which have been produced by the same method for over 150 years, drawing Japanese cuisine aficionados from across the country.

A few other historic buildings can be found dispersed among the more modern constructions prevalent in this part of town. Many buildings are stores selling cherry tree bark products. Local woodworkers craft the cherry bark into small mirrors, jewelry boxes and pieces of furniture. Known as "kabazaiku", cherry bark woodwork dates back to a [Kakunodate](e3601.html) samurai named Fujimura Hikoroku who popularized the craft among his neighbours.

**Nishinomiya House** is another important compound located adjacent to the merchant district in a second, smaller samurai zone. Once the home of the wealthy Nishinomiya family and previously open to tourists to view, the complex was partially converted into a [unique hotel](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/he-nowi-jiao-guan.en-gb.html?aid=371183) in 2020. The entire complex is scheduled to fully open as a hotel in spring 2026.

One of the Nishinomiya Family's buildings before it was turned into a hotel

The merchant district is located to the south of the [samurai district](e3602.html). It can be reached in a 15 minute walk or a short [taxi](e2021.html) ride from JR Kakunodate Station.

[How to get to and around Kakunodate](e3603.html)