---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3302.html
title: Tokyo to Nagoya\: How to get to and around Nagoya
description: How to get to and around Nagoya.
keywords: nagoya, orientation, transportation, access, get to, directions, shinkansen, subway, train, bus, meguru
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2506
char_count: 16724
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:56:39
---

From/To:

TokyoCentral Japan AirportOsakaKyotoKanazawaTakayamaShirakawagoGujoIseIga UenoKiso ValleyNagano

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

[Tokyo](e2164.html) and [Nagoya](e2155.html) are connected with each other by the [JR Tokaido Shinkansen](e2018_tokaido.html). Nozomi trains require about 100 minutes to reach Nagoya from Tokyo, Hikari trains about 110 minutes and Kodama trains about three hours. The regular one way fare is 10,560 yen for a non-reserved seat on any train, and around 11,000 yen for a reserved seat. The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) fully covers Hikari and Kodama trains, but a supplement fee is required for riding Nozomi trains.

[Book Now](/rail.html?origin=Tokyo&destination=Nagoya)

Multiple companies, including [Willer Express](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/aichi/nagoya/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184), operate daytime and overnight [buses](e2366.html) between Tokyo and Nagoya. The one way trip takes about 5-6 hours. One way fares vary on travel date and bus type between around 2,000 and 5,500 yen. Online reservations for some of the buses can be made through [Willer](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/aichi/nagoya/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184).

[Book Now](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/aichi/nagoya/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184)

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

[Nagoya](e2155.html) and surroundings are served by multiple [railway companies](e2019.html) and six subway lines. Japan Railways (JR) including the [Tokaido Shinkansen](e2018_tokaido.html) (bullet train), Meitetsu Railway, Kintetsu Railway, the Aonami Line and two subway lines converge at Nagoya Station.

A network of [bus](e2015.html) lines complements the rail network, but it is not easy to use for foreigners. The exception is the Meguru loop bus for tourists, which connects Nagoya Station with several of the city's main tourist attractions.

#### Nagoya Subway

The most convenient means of getting around [Nagoya](e2155.html) for foreign visitors are the city's six subway lines. Color coded and thoroughly bilingual, they are easy to navigate and provide convenient access to most of central Nagoya's attractions.

#### Meguru Loop Bus

This loop bus line for tourists connects Nagoya Station with many of Nagoya's major sights, including the [Toyota Techno Museum](e3308.html), [Noritake Garden](e3309.html), [Nagoya Castle](e3300.html), the [Tokugawa Art Museum](e3303.html) and [Sakae](e3304.html). Buses operate every 20-40 minutes on weekends and every 30-60 minutes on weekdays, but they do not operate on Mondays (or the following day if Monday is a [national holiday](e2062.html)) when the museums are closed. The fare is 210 yen per ride or 500 yen for a day pass for unlimited rides on one calendar day.

#### JR (Japan Railways)

JR connects Nagoya via the [Tokaido Shinkansen](e2018_tokaido.html) with [Tokyo](e2164.html), [Kyoto](e2158.html) and [Osaka](e2157.html). Other JR lines commencing or passing through Nagoya are the Tokaido Line, Chuo Line (to [Kiso Valley](e6075.html), [Nagano](e6000.html)), Kansai Line (in the direction of [Ise](e4301.html)) and Takayama Line (to [Takayama](e5900.html)). While they are useful for side trips out of Nagoya, the JR lines are not very useful for getting around the city.

#### Meitetsu (Nagoya Railway)

Meitetsu Railway operates numerous railway lines from Nagoya Station into Nagoya's suburbs and surrounding regions. Meitetsu's main station, Meitetsu Nagoya Station, is located in the basement below JR Nagoya Station. Of interest to foreign travelers are the Inuyama Line (to [Inuyama](e3350.html)), Toyota Line (to Toyota) and the Airport Line (to [Central Japan Airport](e2431.html)).

#### Kintetsu Railway

Kintetsu Railway connects Nagoya Station with [Ise](e4301.html) and various cities in the [Kansai Region](/list/e1105.html), including [Nara](e2165.html) and [Osaka](e2157.html).

#### Linimo (Tobu Kyuryo Line)

The Linimo started service as Japan's first maglev train in 2005. It operates between Fujigaoka and Yakusa Stations and provided access to the [Expo 2005](/expo/) site, which now serves as the home of the [Ghibli Park](e3318.html).

**Toica** (by JR) and **Manaca** (by Meitetsu and Nagoya Subway) are the [prepaid IC cards](e2359_003.html) that can be purchased in Nagoya and used on virtually all trains, subways and buses in the Greater Nagoya region (and most [other major cities](/list/e1003.html) in Japan) instead of cash. Furthermore, [eight IC cards](e2359_003.html) from other major cities of Japan can also be used on the trains and buses of Nagoya, including Suica, Pasmo, Icoca, Pitapa, Sugoca, Nimoca and Hayakaken.

Alternatively, there are several one-day passes available for getting around Nagoya:

* **24-hour Subway Pass** (760 yen)
    
  Unlimited use of subways during a 24 hour period. Available at vending machines in subway stations and at ticket counters.
* **1-Day Bus and Subway Pass** (870 yen)
    
  Unlimited use of subways and city buses (including the Meguru loop bus) on one calendar day. Available at vending machines in subway stations, at ticket counters and from bus drivers.
* **Donichi Eco Ticket** (620 yen)
    
  This one-day pass is valid only on Saturdays, Sundays, national holidays and on the 8th of every month. It provides unlimited use of subways and city buses (including the Meguru loop bus) on one calendar day. It is available at vending machines in major subway stations, at ticket counters and from bus drivers.