---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3707.html
title: Aoni Onsen
description: Visitor guide for the Lamp no Yado Aoni Onsen, a remote hot spring accommodation in Kuroishi
keywords: aoni, onsen, kuroishi, hot, spring, lamp, lampnoyado, remote
content_type: attraction
word_count: 554
char_count: 3879
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:48:51
---

Aoni Onsen (青荷温泉) is a secluded [hot spring](e2292.html) in [Aomori Prefecture](/list/e1202.html), located deep in a forested valley between [Hirosaki](e3701.html) and [Lake Towada](e3778.html). The remote onsen consists of a single accommodation facility known for its lack of running [electricity](e2225.html) and [cell phone](e2223.html) reception.

**Lamp no Yado**, the lodging at Aoni Onsen, consists of multiple buildings set beside the Aoni River and surrounded by forest. Hundreds of oil lamps, which are lit nightly, are the lodging's symbol and used for illumination on the premises. There are four different baths available at Lamp no Yado, which are also open to non-staying visitors during the daytime, each offering a different atmosphere. Three of them are gender-segregated.

One of the four baths at Aoni Onsen

The rooms at Lamp no Yado are simple and basic, and visitors are required to lay out their own [futon](e2007.html) and sheets as well as remove them before check out. As there is no running electricity, there are no amenities like televisions nor power outlets in the rooms at all. Oil heaters provide additional heat in the colder months. [Toilets](e2003.html) are shared and similarly lit by oil lamps. Meals are provided in a communal dining room, and some dishes like soup and [rice](e2043.html) are self serve.

A stay at the secluded Lamp no Yado Aoni Onsen is a draw for those who want to experience a rustic hot spring stay in combination with being switched off from the rest of the world. Prices for overnight stays including dinner and breakfast start from 14,000 yen.

Inside the communal dining room

Take the Konan Railway from Hirosaki Station to its terminal station, Kuroishi Station (35 minutes, 470 yen one way, one train/hour).

From April through November, then take a [bus](e2015.html) from Kuroishi Station to Nijinoko Koen (虹の湖公園, 35 minutes, 770 yen, buses every 2-4 hours). From there, complimentary shuttle buses run to the Lamp no Yado in Aoni Onsen in about 20 minutes. From December through March, the buses to Nijinoko Koen are even more infrequent, and shuttle buses run all the way between Kuroishi Station via Nijinoko Koen to the Lamp no Yado in Aoni Onsen. [Reservation](https://www.aoninet.com/en/index.html#access) are required to use the shuttle bus.

It is also possible to drive to Aoni Onsen by [car](e2024.html) in about one hour from central [Hirosaki](e3701.html).

[How to get to and around Hirosaki](e3702.html)