---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3807.html
title: Yumoto Onsen
description: Visitor guide for Yumoto Onsen, a hot spring resort in Nikko National Park.
keywords: yumoto, onsen, hot, spring, springs, okunikko, nikko, national, park
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1867
char_count: 12623
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:48:45
---

Yumoto Town

Yumoto (湯元, literally "origin of hot water") is a small [hot spring](e2292.html) town in the back of [Okunikko](e3818.html) and part of [Nikko National Park](e2325.html). The town is attractively located next to Lake Yunoko (lit. "hot water lake") and consists mainly of [ryokan](e2029.html) with hot spring baths.

North of the town stands Onsenji, a Buddhist [temple](e2058.html) with a small [hot spring bath](e2292.html) open to the public. Next to the temple is Yunodaira Marsh, where a lot of the town's hot water bubbles up from the ground. Some hot water is also bubbling along the northern shore of Lake Yunoko, and a pleasant sulfur odor hangs over the whole town.

Yunodaira Marsh

Immediately south of Lake Yunoko, the lake's calm waters suddenly plunge down a steep, 70 meter high slope. The spectacular waterfall is called Yudaki (lit. "hot water waterfall"), but the water of neither the lake nor the waterfall are actually warm.

From Yudaki starts the attractive Senjogahara Plateau Nature Trail, leading along Yukawa River (lit. "hot water river") through the woods and across the marshland of the [Senjogahara Plateau](e3811.html) to [Ryuzu Waterfall](e3813.html) at the shores of [Lake Chuzenji](e3806.html).

[Autumn colors](e2014.html) around Yumoto Onsen are usually best around mid October.

Yudaki Waterfall

Yumoto Onsen is connected with central [Nikko](e3800.html) by Tobu [buses](e2015.html). Buses leave from Tobu Nikko Station (many also serve JR Nikko Station) and are bound for Yumoto Onsen. There are 1-2 buses per hour. The one way trip from Tobu Nikko Station to Yumoto Onsen takes about 80 minutes, costs 1950 yen and is covered by the [Nikko All Area Pass](e2358_002.html). A 2-day pass for unlimited bus rides between Nikko and Yumoto Onsen is available for 3500 yen at Tobu Nikko Station.

Note that during the [autumn leaf](e2014.html) season in October, traffic between central Nikko and Yumoto Onsen can be very heavy, and buses can incur heavy delays, especially on weekends. If possible, try to visit during the week and not on weekends.

[How to get to and around Nikko](e3805.html)


[Read our Nikko Hotel Guide](/hotels/nikko.html)