---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3601.html
title: Kakunodate Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for the city of Kakunodate in Japan.
keywords: kakunodate, guide, travel, tourism, sightseeing, tourist, city, trip, visitor, information
content_type: attraction
word_count: 316
char_count: 2774
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 22:43:35
---

Kakunodate (角館) is a former [castle town](e2296.html) and [samurai](e2127.html) stronghold in today's [Akita Prefecture](/list/e1203.html). While [Kakunodate Castle](e3604.html) no longer remains, the town is famous for its samurai tradition and its hundreds of [weeping cherry trees](e2011_species.html) (shidarezakura).

Apart from the loss of its castle, Kakunodate remains remarkably unchanged since its founding in 1620. The town was built with two distinct areas, the [samurai district](e3602.html) and the [merchant district](e3603.html). Once home to 80 families, the samurai district still has some of the best examples of samurai architecture in all of Japan.

Kakunodate is also well known as the location of one of the [Tohoku Region](/list/e1102.html)'s most popular [cherry blossom](e2011.html) spots. Around late April and early May, large crowds of people come to see Kakunodate's special combination of pink blossoms and historic homes.

* [](/e/e3600.html)

  1

  Cherry Blossoms

  [Cherry Blossoms•](/e/e3600.html)

  Kakunodate is a famous hanami spot.

  4.5

  

  142
* [](/e/e3602.html)

  2

  Historic Site

  [Samurai District•](/e/e3602.html)

  Beautifully preserved former samurai district.

  3.8

  

  245
* [](/e/e3605.html)

  3

  Historic Site

  [Merchant District](/e/e3605.html)

  District formerly reserved for merchants.

  3.2

  

  136
* [](/e/e3604.html)

  4

  Castle

  [Kakunodate Castle](/e/e3604.html)

  Not even ruins remain of the former castle.

  2.8

  

  82

Nearby Attractions

* [](/e/e3650.html)

  1

  Onsen

  [Nyuto Onsen•••](/e/e3650.html)

  Wonderful rustic hot spring resort.

  4.7

  

  136
* [](/e/e3657.html)

  2

  Nature

  [Lake Tazawa](/e/e3657.html)

  A pretty and very deep caldera lake.

  3.2

  

  156

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Kakunodate](/e/e3601.html)

[Getting to and around Kakunodate](/e/e3603.html)
[See access info](/e/e3603.html)