---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3300.html
title: Nagoya Castle
description: Visitor guide for Nagoya Castle. one of Japan's greatest feudal castles.
keywords: nagoya, castle, nagoyajo
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2223
char_count: 14394
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:50:52
---

Construction Notice:

The castle's main keep is scheduled to be torn down and reconstructed in wood; however, the project is plagued by delays, and a specific schedule has not been decided on. Note that it is not possible anymore to enter the main keep because it is not considered sufficiently earthquake-resistant.

Nagoya Castle (名古屋城, Nagoyajō) was built in the beginning of the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868) as the seat of one of the three branches of the ruling [Tokugawa](/e/e2128.html) family, the Owari branch. As such, it was one of the largest castles in the country, and the [castle town](e2296.html) around it ultimately grew to become Japan's fourth largest city.

Most castle buildings were destroyed in the air raids of 1945, including the castle keep and the palace buildings. The current ferro-concrete reconstruction of the **castle keep** dates from 1959 and - before its closure in May 2018 - contained a museum about the castle's history. The park surrounding the castle keep features two circles of moats and impressive walls with corner turrets. It becomes an attractive [hanami spot](e3310.html) during the [cherry blossom](e2011.html) season which usually peaks in late March or early April.

The palace with the keep in the background

The castle's **palace** (Honmaru Goten) was recently rebuilt and fully opened to the public in June 2018. Half a century after its destruction in the war, the palace was rebuilt using traditional construction materials and techniques. It contains entrance and reception halls as well as rooms reserved for the visiting shogun with beautiful, replicated paintings on the sliding doors (fusuma). The palace has been considered one of the finest examples of [Shoin architecture](e2007.html) in all of Japan.

In another ambitious project, the city is planning to reconstruct Nagoya Castle's main keep in wood. The current, ferro-concrete main keep was closed to the public in May 2018 due to concerns about its earthquake resistance. It was previously schedule to be demolished in 2024 and the new, wooden keep to be completed in 2028; however, the project is being delayed and not expected to be completed before 2032.

A room in the palace

From Nagoya Station, take the Sakuradori Subway Line to Hisayaodori Station (5 minutes) and change to the Meijo Subway Line to Nagoyajo Station (2 minutes). The total one way journey takes about ten minutes and costs 240 yen. From the nearest exit, it is a three minute walk to the castle's east gate.

Alternatively, the castle's main gate can be reached from Nagoya Station by the [Meguru tourist loop bus](e3302.html) in about 25 minutes. The fare is 210 yen per ride or 500 yen for a day pass.

[How to get to and around Nagoya](e3302.html)