---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3936.html
title: Shugakuin Imperial Villa (Shugakuin Rikyu)
description: Visitor guide for Shugakuin Imperial Villa (Shugakuin Rikyu) in Kyoto.
keywords: shugakuin, imperial, villa, kyoto, palace, garden, japan
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3284
char_count: 22882
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:43:55
---

Shugakuin Imperial Villa (修学院離宮, Shugakuin Rikyū) was built in the 17th century by Emperor Gomizuno and is now managed by the Imperial Household Agency. It consists of the Upper, Middle and Lower Villa areas, each featuring [gardens](e2099.html) and buildings of the traditional imperial style.

Shugakuin's name comes from a former [temple](e2058.html) built on the same site in the tenth century. The Imperial Villa was constructed between 1655 and 1659, with a palace for Gomizuno's daughter added ten years later. More recently in 1964, the surrounding farmlands were bought by the Imperial Household Agency. Local farmers continue to work the fields.

Shugakuin is only accessible to the public through guided tours. Tours last about one hour and twenty minutes and take visitors through all three villas, pointing out the significant [garden](e2099.html) features and structures. The tour is held in [Japanese](e621.html); however audio guides in several foreign languages are available.

As with all Imperial properties, it is not possible to enter any of the buildings. However, for those interested in Japanese design and architecture, several buildings are left open along the tour route so that visitors can see inside. Important features such as elevated tatami mats and painted panels are pointed out by the audio guide.

Farmlands surrounding Shugakuin Imperial Villa

The closest station to Shugakuin is Shugakuin Station on the Eizan Railway Line, from where the villa's entrance gates can be reached in a 10 to 15 minute walk.

From [Kyoto Station](e3922.html), take the JR Nara Line to Tofukuji (3 minutes) and transfer to the Keihan Line to its terminus, Demachiyanagi (10 minutes). From there, take the Eizan Railway to Shugakuin (7 minutes). The entire trip costs 670 yen and takes about 40 minutes.

[How to get to and around Kyoto](e2363.html)