---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3904.html
title: Heian Shrine
description: Visitor guide for Heian Shrine, a shrine in Kyoto dedicated the first and last emperors who ruled from the city.
keywords: heian, shrine, jingu, kyoto, japan
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3243
char_count: 22435
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:44:20
---

Construction Notice:

Heian Shrine is undergoing [renovation works](/event/construction.html) in stages from summer 2024 until the 2030 fiscal year, which ends in March 2031. During the renovations, some of the buildings will be covered up, but visiting the shrine and garden will remain possible.

Heian Shrine (平安神宮, Heian Jingū) has a relatively short history, dating back just over a hundred years to [1895](e2130.html). The shrine was built on the occasion of the 1100th anniversary of the [capital's foundation in Kyoto](e2132.html) and is dedicated to the spirits of the first and last [emperors](e2135.html) who reigned from the city, Emperor Kammu (737-806) and Emperor Komei (1831-1867). Heian is the former name of [Kyoto](e2158.html).

A giant [torii gate](e2059.html) marks the approach to the shrine, around which there are a couple of [museums](e3962.html). The actual shrine grounds themselves are very spacious with a wide open court at the center. The shrine's main buildings are a partial replica of the original Imperial Palace from the [Heian Period](e2132.html), built on a somewhat smaller scale than the original.

Garden behind the main building

Behind the main buildings there is an attractive, paid garden with a variety of plants, ponds and buildings. The garden's most striking feature are its many weeping [cherry trees](e2011_species.html), which bloom a few days later than most other cherry trees, making the garden one of the best [cherry blossom spots in Kyoto](e3951.html) around the tail end of the season, which is usually around mid April.

Occasionally, the shrine's court is used for special events. For instance, the shrine serves as a site of the [Jidai Festival](e3960.html) each year on October 22, the anniversary of the foundation of Kyoto. The festival's main event is a parade of people in costumes from different periods of [Japanese history](e641.html) that leads from the [Kyoto Imperial Palace](e3917.html) to Heian Shrine.

Heian Shrine's massive Torii Gate during the Jidai Festival

Heian Shrine can be reached by Kyoto City [bus](e2015.html) number 5 from [Kyoto Station](e3922.html) in about half an hour (230 yen). Alternatively, take the subway via Karasuma Oike Station to Higashiyama Station (20 minutes, 260 yen), from where the shrine is a ten minute walk.

[How to get to and around Kyoto](e2363.html)