---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3726.html
title: How to get to and around the Shimokita Peninsula\: Access, Orientation and Transportation
description: How to get to and around the Shimokita Peninsula in Aomori Prefecture
keywords: shimokita, peninsula, hanto, japan, how, get to, transportation, access, orientation, train, ferry, rental car
content_type: attraction
word_count: 449
char_count: 3316
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:05:46
---

### How to get to the Shimokita Peninsula

#### By train

The JR Ominato Line runs from Noheji Station to Shimokita Station (50 minutes) on the [Shimokita Peninsula](e3725.html). From [Tokyo](e2164.html), take a Hayabusa train on the [JR Tohoku Shinkansen](e2018_tohoku.html) to Hachinohe (3 hours, seat reservations mandatory) and transfer to the Aoimori Railway to Noheji (30-45 minutes). The entire one way trip takes 4.5 to 5 hours, costs about 18,500 yen and is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html). From [Aomori](e3750.html), Noheji can be reached in a 45 minute ride by the Aoimori Railway.

#### By air

The closest [airport](e3750.html) to the peninsula is Misawa Airport with flights from [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s [Haneda Airport](e2430.html) and [Osaka](e2157.html)'s [Itami Airport](e2433.html). From Misawa Airport, take a bus to Misawa Station (15 minutes, 400 yen one way), from where Shimokita Station is an 80-minute train ride via Noheji Station (1980 yen one way).

#### By ferry from Hokkaido

There are multiple [ferries](e2355.html) per day between [Hakodate](e5350.html) on [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html) and [Cape Oma](e3729.html) on the [Shimokita Peninsula](e3725.html). The one way ride takes about 90 minutes and costs around 2500 yen for the cheapest class. Fares are increased during the peak seasons. Online reservations can be made through [Willer](https://willer-travel.com/en/ferry/carrier/52.html?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184).

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](/e/e2196.html).

Public transportation on the [Shimokita Peninsula](e3725.html) is limited and seasonal. Mutsu City, the largest city on the peninsula, serves as the area's transportation hub. Most rail travelers will access the peninsula through Mutsu's Shimokita Station and use a [rental car](e2024.html) or [local buses](e2015.html) to navigate the area from there.

Mutsu Bus Terminal is located about three kilometers northeast of Shimokita Station. Several [buses](e2015.html) serve both the railway station and the bus terminal, but some buses stop only at the bus terminal. The most important bus line connects Mutsu via Ohata with Oma year around. The bus line to [Osorezan](e3727.html), however, does not operate from November through April.

A simplified rail and bus network map of the peninsula is shown below:

A more convenient means of getting around the peninsula is a [rental car](e2024.html). Rental outlets are available at Shimokita, Noheji, Aomori and Hachinohe stations and at Misawa Airport.