---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3005.html
title: Ginza
description: Visitor guide for the Ginza shopping and entertainment district in Tokyo.
keywords: ginza, tokyo, japan
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3749
char_count: 26248
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:57:21
---

Ginza (銀座) is [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s most famous upmarket shopping, dining and entertainment district, featuring numerous [department stores](e2072.html), boutiques, art galleries, [restaurants](e2036.html), night clubs and cafes. One square meter of land in the district's center is worth over ten million [yen](e2196.html), making it one of the most expensive real estate in Japan.

[From 1612 to 1800](e2128.html), today's Ginza district was the site of a silver coin mint (Ginza means "silver mint" in [Japanese](e621.html)), after which the district was eventually named. The Ginza evolved as an upmarket shopping district following the 1923 Great Kanto Earthquake.

Chuo Dori street on a weekend afternoon

Most shops in the Ginza district are open every day of the week. A visit is most pleasant on weekend afternoons when the central **Chuo Dori** street is closed to automobile traffic and become a large pedestrian zone. The road closure takes place from noon to 18:00 (until 17:00 from October through March).

### Shopping

* 

  Seiko House Ginza

  Shops: 11:00 to 19:00

  The clock tower of the Seiko House Ginza is the symbol of the district, standing at the northwest corner of the district's centrally located Ginza 4-Chome junction of Chuo Dori and Harumi Dori. Most of the building is occupied by the Wako department store, which sells watches, jewelry and other luxury items.
* 

  Ginza Six

  Hours: 10:30 to 20:30 (restaurants 11:00 to 23:00)

  Opened in 2017, Ginza Six is the district's largest shopping complex. Besides many floors of cosmetics and fashion, the complex offers interesting floors devoted to foods and interior design, a large Tsutaya bookshop specializing in art publications, a pleasant rooftop garden and a [Noh theater](e2091.html) in its basement.
* 

  GinzaNovo

  Hours: 11:00 to 21:00 (restaurants until 23:00)

  The GinzaNovo shopping complex features 14 floors of shopping and dining, including two floors of tax-free shopping and an interesting open rooftop with views over the city. It was formerly known as Tokyu Plaza Ginza.
* 

  Mitsukoshi

  Shops: 10:00 to 20:00  
  Restaurants: typically 11:00 to 23:00

  The Ginza store of the Mitsukoshi department store chain was opened in 1930 and offers goods and services on twelve floors. Mitsukoshi's history reaches back to the year 1673.
* 

  Matsuya

  Shops: 10:00 to 20:00 (until 19:30 on Sundays)  
  Restaurants: typically 11:00 to 22:00

  The Ginza store of the Matsuya department store chain offers fashion, foods, household goods, a pet shop, a travel agency and an exhibition hall on its eleven floors.
* 

  Marronnier Gate

  Hours: 11:00 to 21:00 (restaurants until 23:00)

  Marronnier Gate is a shopping complex consisting of three buildings, including the buildings of the former Printemps department store. The complex contains a large number of shops ranging from small boutiques to the Ginza branch of the popular Hands store which covers five floors of building number one and Uniqlo Ginza, one of the largest Uniqlo stores in the world in building number two.
* 

  Itoya

  Hours: 10:00 to 20:00 (until 19:00 on Sundays and [public holidays](e2062.html))

  This narrow but tall and elegant store is one of Japan's best stationery shop, selling everything from paper to paint supplies. The store is bright and modern and contains various food and relaxation spaces on its upper floors. A separate, second building is located nearby, one street off the main street.

### Other points of interest

* 

  Kabukiza Theater

  Regular tickets for an entire play typically cost between 4,000 and 22,000 yen depending on the seat and require advance reservations. Tickets for just single acts are sold on the day at the theater for around 2,000 yen.

  The Kabukiza is the best places to see [kabuki theater](e2090.html), featuring performances almost every day. The building was reconstructed and reopened in 2013. It closely resembles its predecessor except for a skyscraper that now stands on top of it.
* 

  Ginza Place

  Nissan Showroom: 10:00 to 20:00  
  Sony Showroom: 11:00 to 19:00  
  Restaurants: typically 11:30 to 23:00

  Located diagonally across the Ginza Wako on the Ginza 4-Chome junction, this complex was opened in 2016 and features a Nissan showroom, Sony showroom and a few eateries and restaurants.
* 

  The Seiko Museum Ginza

  Hours: 10:30 to 18:00, [advance reservations](https://museum.seiko.co.jp/en/) are required  
  Closed: Mondays, [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission: free

  This excellent [museum](e3054.html) primarily educates its visitors about the history of Seiko, Japan's most prominent watch manufacturer, but also has interesting displays and explanations about the history of clocks in general. A lot of English information is provided. Advance reservations are necessary to visit the museum.
* 

  [Yurakucho Gado-shita Dining](e3072.html)

  One of Tokyo's most interesting dining districts is located beneath the elevated train tracks north and south of [Yurakucho Station](e3072.html) (in Japanese: Gado-shita from "below the girder"). Stretching over about 700 meters, dozens of restaurants are built into the brick arches below the [Yamanote Line](e2370.html), ranging from small [yakitori](/r/e102.html) joints and [izakaya](e2036_izakaya.html) to [beer](e2037_beer.html) halls and slightly more upscale French wine bars.

The most convenient stations for accessing the Ginza district are **Ginza Station** on the Hibiya, Marunouchi and Ginza Subway Lines and **Yurakucho Station** on the [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html), [JR Keihin-Tohoku Line](e2371.html) and Yurakucho Subway Line.

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)