---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3758.html
title: Furukawa Fish Market
description: Visitor guide for the Furukawa Fish Market in Aomori City.
keywords: furukawa, gyosai, center, fish, market, aomori, city
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1853
char_count: 12079
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:30:27
---

The Furukawa Fish Market, also known as the Aomori Gyosai Center (青森魚菜センター, Aomori Gyosai Sentā), is a [public fish market](e2452.html) in central [Aomori](e3750.html). Just like the [Auga Fish Market](e3754.html) a few blocks north, the Furukawa Fish Market is filled with tightly packed rows of vendors selling all sorts of local seafood, [vegetables](e2346.html) and [pickles](e2349.html).

What makes the Furukawa Fish Market special is a system that lets visitors create their own seafood [donburi](e2342.html) (called nokkedon) from the seasonal, local seafood sold right at the market. These types of seafood donburi are available under different names at other fish markets around the country, usually on a limited basis; however, at Furukawa Fish Market they are sold every day that the market is open.

Some examples of nokkedon from the Furukawa Fish Market

To make your own nokkedon, purchase tickets (170 yen per ticket or 2000 yen for a set of 12 tickets). Each ticket can be exchanged for items around the market. Use your tickets to purchase a bowl of rice (one ticket for a regular portion, two tickets for a large portion) and then wander around and check out what the fishmongers have for sale. Most sell a variety of raw fish, crab, shellfish, seaweed, fish eggs and other goodies in small portions priced between one and three tickets. Tell them what you want, pay with your tickets, and they will put the item on top of your rice.

You cannot take your nokkedon outside, but should eat it at one of the tables set up around the market. Condiments, such as [wasabi](e2311.html), [soy sauce](e2045.html#shoyu) and [ginger](e2349.html#gari), are provided in addition to free [tea](e2041.html) and water. Hot miso soups and small trays of [pickles](e2349.html) can also be purchased with your tickets from the various vendors.

Small trays of fish and other seafood to make nokkedon

The Furukawa Fish Market is about a five minute walk southeast of JR Aomori Station and about a block and a half south of the [Auga Fish Market](e3754.html).

[How to get to and around Aomori](e3751.html)