---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3037.html
title: Tokyo Station and Marunouchi
description: Visitor guide for Tokyo's Marunouchi district and Tokyo Station.
keywords: tokyo, station, marunouchi, oazo, international, forum
content_type: attraction
word_count: 4350
char_count: 30429
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:00:43
---

Tokyo Station

Located between the [Imperial Palace](e3017.html) and Tokyo Station, Marunouchi (丸の内) is one of Japan's most prestigious business districts. During the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868), Marunouchi (literally "within the enclosure") was located within the outer moats of [Edo Castle](e3017.html) and contained the residences of some of Japan's most powerful feudal lords. Together with neighboring Otemachi, Marunouchi is now home to the headquarters of many of Japan's most powerful companies, particularly from the financial sector.

Over the past decades, Marunouchi has been receiving a major **facelift**, led by the Mitsubishi Estate company, which owns a lot of the land in the district. Many older office buildings were replaced by new skyscrapers with offices on their upper floors and a variety of shops and restaurants on their lower floors. These newly opened **shopping and dining complexes** have revitalized the formerly unexciting business district and are drawing an increased number of non-business visitors and tourists.

View of Marunouchi from the Imperial Palace

Marunouchi is bordered on the east by **Tokyo Station**, one of Japan's busiest [railway](e2019.html) stations and the terminal of multiple [shinkansen](e2018.html) lines. The station building on the Marunouchi side is a prominent red brick building, which dates from 1914 and was renovated in 2012 to its pre-war appearance. Besides travel services, it offers a hotel, restaurants and an art gallery.

The appearance of the opposite side of the station, the Yaesu Side, is more modern and features the Gran Roof, a bright, massive roof above the station entrances that is flanked by skyscrapers. Shopping and travel facilities within the station have also received a facelift in recent years. The product of all these works is the "Tokyo Station City" complex.

### Shopping and dining

* 

  Marunouchi Building (Marubiru)

  Shops: 11:00 to 21:00 (until 20:00 on Sundays and [national holidays](e2062.html))  
  Restaurants: 11:00 to 23:00 (until 22:00 on Sundays and national holidays)

  Opened in 2002 just in front of Tokyo Station, the Marunouchi Building (Marubiru) is one of the districts landmark buildings. Shopping and restaurants can be found on the lower six floors, while the top two floors offer nice restaurants with views over the city.
* 

  Shin Marunouchi Building (Shin Marubiru)

  Shops: 11:00 to 21:00 (until 20:00 on Sundays and [national holidays](e2062.html))  
  Restaurants: 11:00 to 23:00 (until 22:00 on Sundays and national holidays)

  The Shin Marunouchi Building (Shin Marubiru), was opened in 2007 opposite the Marubiru as another landmark building outside of Tokyo Station. It features over 150 shops on its lower five floors and about 40 restaurants on the 5th, 6th and 7th floors. The 7th floor is surrounded by a publicly accessible balcony.
* 

  Kitte

  Shops: 11:00 to 20:00  
  Restaurants: 11:00 to 22:00

  Opened in 2013, Kitte (Japanese for "postal stamp") is a shopping and dining complex on the lower floors of the JP Tower next to Tokyo Station. The first four floors feature over 70 stores selling mostly fashion and interior goods, while the top two floors contain restaurants and a rooftop garden with views out over Tokyo Station. The Tokyo Central Post Office is located on the ground floor with its facade preserved from the previous building.
* 

  Marunouchi Oazo

  Shops: typically 10:00 to 21:00  
  Restaurants: 11:00 to 23:00

  Opened in 2004, Oazo is a shopping, dining and hotel complex facing the Marunouchi North Exit of Tokyo Station. Four of Oazo's 18 floors are occupied by the Maruzen bookstore with a large foreign language section, while the top ten floors constitute the [Marunouchi Hotel](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/marunouchi-hotel.html?aid=371183).
* 

  Marunouchi Brick Square

  Shops: 11:00 to 21:00 (until 20:00 on Sundays and [national holidays](e2062.html))  
  Restaurants: 11:00 to 23:00 (until 22:00 Sundays and [national holidays](e2062.html))

  Marunouchi, Brick Square is located along Nakadori near Marubiru. The building's lower two floors feature specialty shops, fashion boutiques, cafes and restaurants, while the 2nd and 3rd floors feature trendy restaurants and bars. The 4th floor houses a fitness gym. The [Ichigokan Museum](#ichigokan) is also part of the Brick Square grounds.
* 

  Tokyo Building Tokia

  Shops: 11:00 to 23:00 (until 22:00 Sundays and [national holidays](e2062.html))  
  Restaurants: 11:00 to 23:00 (until 22:00 Sundays and [national holidays](e2062.html))

  Tokia is a shopping and dining center in the lower floors of the Tokyo Building, which aims to be an evening spot where people can gather after work to enjoy good food and music in a fun atmosphere. As such it is filled with a variety of trendy restaurants and bars that cater to the after-work crowd.

### Museums

* 

  Mitsubishi Ichigokan Museum

  Hours: 10:00 to 18:00 (until 20:00 on Fridays and selected other days)  
  Closed: Mondays (except [national holidays](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission: Varies by exhibition

  Originally built in 1894 for the Mitsubishi Company as the first Western-style office building in the Marunouchi district, the Ichigokan (lit. "Building Number 1") was reconstructed and reopened in 2010 as a museum focusing on 19th century Western art.

### Other attractions

* 

  [Imperial Palace](e3017.html)

  [Tokyo Imperial Palace](e3017.html), the residence of Japan's [Imperial Family](e2135.html), stands on the former site of Edo Castle. The outer area of the palace grounds with its moats and walls can be reached in a five minute walk from Tokyo Station and be seen freely. Some of the inner grounds of the palace can be seen by joining a guided tour.
* 

  [Imperial East Gardens](e3018.html)

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (plus/minus one hour depending on the season)  
  Closed: Mondays and Fridays (or next day if Mon or Fri is a [holiday](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html)  
  Admission: Free

  The [Imperial East Gardens](e3018.html) occupy the former site of Edo Castle's central complex and are the only part of the inner palace area that is open to the public. They feature Japanese and Western style [gardens](e2099.html) and the foundation of the castle's former [keep](e2296.html).
* 

  Tokyo International Forum

  Hours and admission fees vary by event

  The Tokyo International Forum is one of the city's many architectural highlights. It is a venue for various conventions, exhibitions, concerts and other events. An event calendar can be found on the official website (see [links below](#section_links)).

Marunouchi is located on the west side of Tokyo Station, which is served by several [shinkansen](e2018.html) lines, the [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html) and various other urban and suburban train and subway lines. Nearby is Otemachi Station, which is served by five subway lines.

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)