---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3042.html
title: Tokyo Water Bus (Suijo Bus)
description: Visitor guide for the Tokyo Water Bus, an interesting way to travel around Tokyo's rivers and bay.
keywords: tokyo, water, bus, river, bay, suijo, boat, cruise, sumida, river, asakusa, odaiba
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3068
char_count: 21595
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:01:17
---

The Himiko Water Bus travels through Tokyo Bay

Located on a bay and covered with a network of rivers and canals, [Tokyo](e2164.html) has a few boat services that tourists may find useful. The **Water Bus** (水上バス, Suijō Basu) can be an enjoyable alternative to [trains](e2019.html) or subways when traveling between destinations near the water.

The locations most notably convenient for water bus access are the man-made islands of Tokyo Bay, especially [Odaiba](e3008.html). Many water buses also travel along the Sumida River, one of the city's most famous rivers. The many bridges that span the river have each a different design. Boats along the river provide access to [Asakusa](e3004.html) and [Ryogoku](e3022.html).

The coronavirus pandemic had a severe impact on the water buses, and services remain reduced compared to pre-corona times. On the most popular lines, departures can be close to hourly, but on many other sections, there are only few connections per day, and service is completely suspended on certain days.

Many of the water buses are operated by **Tokyo Cruise**. Its main line connects [Asakusa](e3004.html) with [Odaiba](e3008.html). Besides direct connections, some boats stop along the way at [Hama Rikyu](e3025.html) (in the direction of Hinode only), Hinode and [Toyosu](e3013.html) (in the direction of Asakusa only). The cost depends on the section traveled and is typically between 1000 and 2500 yen.

The Himiko at Odaiba Seaside Park

**Urban Launch** operates 30-minute mini cruises, which start and end in [Asakusa](e3004.html), and infrequent connections between Asakusa and [Toyosu](e3013.html). Furthermore, the **Mizube Cruise Line** travels from Asakusa via [Ryogoku](e3022.html) to [Odaiba](e3008.html). On selected days, service is also provided between Odaiba and [Kasai Rinkai Park](e3024.html).

There are some other cruises available that include lunch or dinner for customers to enjoy a meal on the water. These cruises usually take about two hours and make a round trip that ends at the departure point. Prices depend on the meal and typically vary from 6,000 to 15,000 yen.

Asakusa's water bus pier

**Asakusa Pier**
  
The pier is located along the Sumida River, just beside the Asakusa Stations of the Ginza Subway Line and the Tobu Line or a five minute walk from Asakusa Station on the Asakusa Subway Line. More detailed access information can be found on the [Asakusa page](e3004.html).

**Odaiba Pier**
  
The pier is located just in front of the [Aquacity Odaiba](e3008.html#aqua) shopping mall, about a five minute walk from either Daiba Station or Odaiba-Kaihinkoen Station on the Yurikamome Line. More detailed access information can be found on the [Odaiba page](e3008.html).

**Hinode Pier**
  
The pier is a five minute walk north from Hinode Station on the Yurikamome Line, which can be accessed from Shimbashi Station (5 minutes, 260 yen, along the [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html)).

**Hama Rikyu Pier**
  
The pier is located within [Hama Rikyu garden](e3025.html). Currently it is not possible to board water buses at Hama Rikyu, but only to get off.

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)