---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3015.html
title: Tsukishima
description: Visitor guide for Tsukishima, a man-made island in Tokyo Bay, famous for monjayaki and tsukudani.
keywords: tokyo, tsukishima, tsukuda, monja, monjayaki, tsukudani
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2887
char_count: 20518
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:01:31
---

Tsukishima (月島, lit. moon island) is a man-made island in Tokyo Bay. It was created over 100 years ago using soil dredged from the bay during the construction of a shipping channel.

In the last few decades, areas of the island were redeveloped into residential high-rise complexes; however, you can still find remnants of the atmosphere of old [Tokyo](e2164.html) if you poke around the back alleys and lanes, especially around Sumiyoshi Shrine.

Tsukishima is best known for **monjayaki** (もんじゃ焼き), a kind of runny pancake with different ingredients, such as seafood, meat and vegetables, mixed into the batter. A large concentration of monjayaki restaurants can be found along Nishinaka Street, just a few steps from Tsukishima Station.

Monjayaki

Tsukudajima used to be a neighboring island that has since been joined together to Tsukishima. It is the birth place of **tsukudani** (佃煮), small pieces of food that have been preserved by cooking in [soy sauce](e2045.html) and sweet [sake](e2037.html). It is eaten as a topping on [rice](e2043.html).

Any type of food can be turned into tsukudani, but typical foods include seafood such as fish and shrimp, seaweed, beef and grasshoppers. There are three shops on Tsukudajima that have survived since the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868) including the first ever tsukudani shop.

Tsukudani

Tsukishima Station is served by the Oedo and Yurakucho subway lines.

### From Tokyo Station

Take the [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html) from [Tokyo Station](e3037.html) to [Yurakucho](e3072.html) (2 minutes, 150 yen) and transfer to the Yurakucho Subway Line for Tsukishima Station (5 minutes, 180 yen).

### From Shinjuku Station

Take the Oedo Subway Line from [Shinjuku](e3011.html) in the direction of [Roppongi](e3031.html) directly to Tsukishima. The one way journey takes 25 minutes and costs 280 yen.

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)