---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3652.html
title: Tokyo to Hachimantai\: How to get to and around Hachimantai
description: How to get to and around Hachimantai.
keywords: hachimantai, orientation, transportation, access, directions, car, train, bus
content_type: attraction
word_count: 416
char_count: 3151
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:15:50
---

From/To:

TokyoLake TowadaHirosakiAomori

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

[Tokyo](e2164.html) and Tazawako Station are connected by hourly Komachi trains along the [JR Akita Shinkansen](e2018_tohoku.html). The one way trip takes just under three hours, costs about 16,500 yen and is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html) and [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html). Seat reservations are mandatory for the Akita Shinkansen.

[Overnight buses](e2366.html) connect [Tokyo](e2164.html) with [Morioka](e5050.html) in about 8 hours. The one way fare is 4100-9400 yen depending on the date of travel and seat type. Online reservations can be made through [Willer](https://willer-travel.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/iwate/morioka/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184). From Morioka, it is a 30 minute [shinkansen](e2018.html) ride to Tazawako Station (around 2000 yen one way) or a bus ride in the direction of [Mount Hachimantai](e3655.html).

[Book Now](https://willer-travel.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/iwate/morioka/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184)

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

**Tazawako Station** on the [Akita Shinkansen](e2018.html) in the south, **Morioka Station** on the [Tohoku Shinkansen](e2018.html) in the east and **Kazuno-Hanawa Station** on the JR Hanawa Line in the north are the main entry points into the [Hachimantai](e3651.html) area. A **bus network**, operated by Ugo Kotsu, Shuhoku Bus and Iwate Kenpoku, connects these stations with the various points of interest.

Because [bus](e2015.html) service is infrequent on many of the routes, a **rental car** is the most convenient way to travel around Hachimantai. [Rental car](e2024.html) outlets can be found at [Morioka](e5050.html) and Tazawako stations and most other major railway stations, cities and airports in the [Tohoku Region](/list/e1102.html).

Note that traveling in the area **during winter** differs greatly from traveling during the rest of the year. From late November to mid April some of the roads in the mountainous interior are closed to traffic, making some sites impossible to access or only accessible from a certain direction (see map above).