---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3041.html
title: Ghibli Museum
description: Visitor guide for the Ghibli Museum in Mitaka, about the animation by Studio Ghibli.
keywords: ghibli, museum, studio, tokyo, mitaka
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2819
char_count: 19909
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:58:21
---

The Ghibli Museum (三鷹の森ジブリ美術館, Mitaka no Mori Ghibli Bijutsukan) is the [animation](e2070.html) and art museum of Miyazaki Hayao's Studio Ghibli, one of Japan's most famous animation studios. They have produced many feature length films, such as My Neighbor Totoro, Princess Mononoke, Spirited Away and Ponyo on the Cliff by the Sea.

Located in Mitaka, just outside of central [Tokyo](e2164.html), not far from [Kichijoji](e3080.html), the [museum](e3054.html) is a must-see for fans of the films. The museum itself is whimsically designed in the distinct style of the studio's films, and many of their famous characters are there, including a life-sized robot from "Castle in the Sky" in the rooftop garden.

The first floor of the museum exhibits the history and techniques of animation and has a small theater which shows short movies by Studio Ghibli that are exclusive to the museum. The second floor houses special temporary exhibitions. The museum also has a cafe, children's play area, a rooftop garden and a gift shop.

The museum can be reached from Mitaka Station on the [JR Chuo Line](e2372.html) (15 minutes, 230 yen from [Shinjuku](e3011.html) Station). There are shuttle buses from the station to the museum (210 yen one way, 320 yen roundtrip, children are half price), while a [taxi](e2021.html) ride costs about 750 yen one way. Alternatively you can walk to the museum in about 20 minutes from Mitaka Station or from [Kichijoji Station](e3080.html) through Inokashira Park.

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)