---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3964.html
title: Daikakuji Temple
description: Visitor guide for Daikakuji, an important Shingon Temple in northern Arashiyama district.
keywords: daikakuji, daikaku, temple, kyoto, shingon, arashiyama
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3449
char_count: 23942
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:43:48
---

Founder's Hall (Miedo)

Daikakuji (大覚寺) is a large [temple](e2058.html) in the northern part of [Kyoto](e2158.html)'s [Sagano](e3912.html) district. It was originally built in the early [800s](e2132.html) as the detached palace of Emperor Saga, who thoroughly enjoyed spending time in this calm area on the outskirts of Kyoto. Thirty years after the emperor's death, the palace was converted into a temple and has since been one of the highest ranked temples of [Shingon Buddhism](e2055.html).

Daikakuji played a role in several significant historical events. A succession of retired emperors reigned from here, and in the 12th century the temple hosted peace talks that reunited the [Northern and Southern Imperial Courts](e2134.html) after 50 years of civil war. Daikakuji is also featured in the Tale of Genji, the first novel in Japanese literature. Today, the temple is one of the best places to still feel the ancient court atmosphere described in the novel and is often used for filming historical dramas.

Heart Sutra Hall

Daikakuji is made up of several buildings connected by elevated wooden walkways. The covered corridors, like the "nightingale floors" of [Nijojo](e3918.html)'s Ninomaru Palace, squeak quietly as you walk over them. Many of the buildings are decorated with painted [sliding doors](e2007.html) (fusuma) by the famous Kano school.

One of Daikakuji's most important treasures is a copy of the **Heart Sutra** that was handwritten by Emperor Saga at the instruction of [Kobo Daishi](e4900.html). The sutra supposedly ended a mysterious plague that was sweeping the country during the [Heian Period](e2132.html). It is kept in the octagonal **Heart Sutra Hall** and exhibited to the public once every 60 years. Nearby is the **Reihokan**, a small museum that displays special exhibitions of the temple's treasures in spring and autumn.

Osawa Pond

Next door to the temple is **Osawa Pond**, a 1200 year old man-made body of water that is the oldest and last surviving (albeit incomplete) example of a [Shinden-style garden](e2099_types.html). The pond was originally built for Emperor Saga's detached palace, and was used to throw elaborate parties and for recreational activities such as boating, fishing and moon viewing.

Several Buddhist statues, a small shrine and the **Shingyo Pagoda**, a two tiered, tahoto-style pagoda erected to commemorate the 1150th anniversary of Emperor Saga writing the Heart Sutra, populate the garden grounds and are connected by a network of walking paths. Visitors can walk around the garden, visit the buildings and enjoy the natural scenery around the pond. The garden is especially popular during the [cherry blossom](e2011.html) (late March to early April) and [autumn color](e2014.html) (late November) seasons.

Shingyo Pagoda

Daikakuji is a 15 minute walk north from JR Saga-Arashiyama Station (15 minutes, 240 yen one way from [Kyoto Station](e3922.html)) or a 25 minute walk north of Keifuku Arashiyama Station. Alternatively, take bus number 91 from Saga-Arashiyama Station (5 minutes, 230 yen, every 20 minutes) or bus number 28 from central Arashiyama (10 minutes, 230 yen, every 20 minutes).

[How to get to and around Kyoto](e2363.html)