---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3113.html
title: Hiking Trails
description: Visitor guide for the hiking trails in the hills of Kamakura.
keywords: kamakura, hiking, trail, hill, trails, walking
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1817
char_count: 12049
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:42:09
---

[Kamakura](e2166.html) is surrounded by the ocean in the south and by wooded hills in all other directions. Attractive hiking trails lead through the woods along these hills and connect various atmospheric [temples](e2058.html).

The trails are a great way to travel between some of Kamakura's sights. Many of the trails do not take long to complete - typically between 30 to 90 minutes - and allow visitors to enjoy a mix of nature and cultural sights.

* 

  Western Hills

  The Daibutsu Hiking Course connects [Jochiji Temple](e3106.html) in Kita-Kamakura with the [Great Buddha](e3100.html) (Daibutsu) in the west of the city. The [Zeniarai Benten](e3111.html) and the Genjiyama public park with a statue of [Minamoto Yoritomo](e2133.html) can be found underway. It takes about 60-90 minutes to complete the entire trail.
* 

  Northern Hills

  The Tenen Hiking Course connects [Kenchoji Temple](e3104.html) in Kita-Kamakura with [Zuisenji Temple](e3110.html) in the east of the city, leading mostly along the ridge of the hills. The whole trail takes about 60-90 minutes to complete, and hikers can find several tomb caves (yagura) along their way. The trail can also be accessed through the Shishimai Valley, which is a popular spot for [autumn colors](e2014.html) in early December.
* 

  Eastern Hills

  The Gionyama Hiking Course connects Yagumo Shrine with the Harakiri Yagura, a cave tomb where the last [Hojo](e2133.html) regent is said to have committed ritual suicide. Some nice views of the city can be enjoyed underway. The trail is shorter than the other two, taking about 30 minutes to complete. It was reopened in April 2023 after a lengthy closure due to damage suffered in a 2019 [typhoon](e2117.html).

The trails are not paved and are narrow and steep at times. It is recommended to explore them only during dry weather and with good walking shoes.

[How to get to and around Kamakura](e3115.html)