---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3067.html
title: Combined Exhibition of Advanced Technologies (CEATEC)
description: About CEATEC, the Combined Exhibition of Advanced Technologies, an electronics trade show in Japan.
keywords: CEATEC, combined, exhibition, exhibit, electronics, advanced, technology, tech, technologies, trade, show, tokyo, japan, chiba, makuhari, messe
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2760
char_count: 19513
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:57:12
---

**CEATEC 2026 is scheduled for October 13-16**

The Combined Exhibition of Advanced Technologies (commonly known as CEATEC) is the largest annual IT and electronics trade show in Japan. It is held in October at the [Makuhari Messe](e3046.html) convention center just outside of central [Tokyo](e2164.html). Virtually every major Japanese electronics maker has a presence at the show, which serves as a platform to introduce cutting-edge achievements in information and electronic technologies.

CEATEC is open to the public on all but the first day of the exhibition, on which special invitations or registrations for members of the industry and press are required. Visitors to the show will have the chance to check out and try new innovative technologies and the latest, unreleased gadgets made by both Japanese and international electronics makers. The exhibition space is divided into several zones covering themes of business, industry and home.

CEATEC is held at the [Makuhari Messe](e3046.html) convention center, a 5-10 minute walk from JR Kaihin-Makuhari Station. From Tokyo Station, Kaihin-Makuhari Station can be reached by [rapid](e2016.html) (30 minutes) or [local](e2016.html) trains (40 minutes) along the JR Keiyo Line (580 yen). There are also a few [limited express](e2016.html) trains covering the distance in 25 minutes for 1340-1600 yen.

Note that the platform of the JR Keiyo Line at Tokyo Station is located a ten minute walk from the station's other platforms.