---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3864.html
title: Wakayama Bamboo Farm (Wakatake no Mori Wakayama Farm)
description: Visitor guide for the Wakayama Bamboo Farm, a cultivated bamboo forest in Utsunomiya, Japan.
keywords: wakayama, bamboo, nature, forest, traditional, agriculture, farming, utsunomiya
content_type: attraction
word_count: 542
char_count: 3619
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:13:37
---

One of the farm's wide pathways

Seven kilometers northwest of central [Utsunomiya](e3860.html), the Wakayama Bamboo Farm (若竹の杜若山農場, Wakatake no Mori Wakayama Nōjō) is a large area of cultivated forest, where many species of bamboo as well as chestnuts and blueberries are organically farmed. Although the main purpose of the farm remains [agricultural](e2463.html), visitors can explore a large area of forest, take part in a number of seasonal activities and view a small exhibition of handcrafted bamboo items. There is also a cafe and gift shop.

The history of the farm can be traced back some 350 years, when the owner's ancestors first settled and began to cultivate the land. After many years of experimenting with various different kinds of crops, the family chose to focus on bamboo and chestnut about 100 years ago, when the then head of the family completed his studies in modern agriculture.

A cafe located close to the entrance

The farm is not only the largest of its kind in Japan but also very well maintained with spacious walking paths and is free of unsightly signs and fences. Adding to the atmosphere are a number of bamboo sculptures dotted around the grounds, ranging from decorative archways to a large and functioning rope swing.

With its natural, uncluttered appearance and featuring many different species of bamboo, the farm is highly reminiscent of the kind of pre-modern Japanese landscape now lost to industrialization - for this reason, it has become a popular location both for TV and film.

One of several bamboo sculptures found along the path

In addition to strolling around the grounds, visitors can take part in a number of [activities](e2424.html), including bamboo shoot picking (available from mid April to early May), blueberry picking (available from July to August), drinking [matcha](e2041.html) from a bamboo cup at a tea house inside the forest, or crafting one of several bamboo items. All cost a few hundred yen in addition to the regular admission fee and may not be be available every day.

On weekends and [national holidays](e2062.html), the forest has extended [opening hours](#section_admission) and is illuminated after sunset, offering a magical atmosphere.

Besides bamboo, the farm contains a large number of chestnut trees

From JR Utsunomiya Station (West Exit), take [bus](e2015.html) number 52, 56 or 58 to Osugiya bus stop (大杉屋, 25 minutes, 560 yen one way, every 20 minutes), from where it is a 10 minute walk to the Wakayama Bamboo Farm. Alternatively, a [taxi](e2021.html) takes about 20 minutes and costs around 4,500 yen one way from central [Utsunomiya](e3860.html).

[How to get to and around Utsunomiya](e3861.html)