---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3200.html
title: Minato Mirai 21
description: Visitor guide for Minato Mirai 2, a large seaside urban area in central Yokohama with a wealth of attractions, including one of Japan's tallest buildings.
keywords: yokohama, minato, mirai, landmark, tower, waterfront, city center
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3313
char_count: 22504
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:09:51
---

Minato Mirai 21 (みなとみらい 21) is a seaside urban area in central [Yokohama](e2156.html) whose name means "harbor of the future". It has many large high-rises, including the Landmark Tower, which was Japan's tallest building from 1993 until 2014. The area was a large shipyard until the 1980s, when development began to turn it into a new city center.

Minato Mirai is blessed with a great location along the water and has a wealth of attractions. Visitors to the area will be able to find shopping centers, hotels, a convention center, an amusement park, a relaxation center with [hot spring](e2292.html) baths, museums and park space.

Minato Mirai at night (the Landmark Tower, Queen's Towers, and Cosmo World Ferris Wheel)

Located along the waterfront, the buildings of the Minato Mirai Chuo district ("central district") form the distinctive skyline of Yokohama. At 296 meters, the Landmark Tower is the most recognizable feature. The three Queen's Towers are located beside it, each one being a little shorter than the next, followed by the [Yokohama Bay Hotel Tokyu](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/yokohama-bay-tokyu.html?aid=355588) and the Pacifico convention center, one of the largest in Japan, which includes the rounded [Intercontinental Hotel](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/intercontinental-yokohama-grand.html?aid=355588). The district extends inland, where redevelopment is still ongoing.

Connected to the Chuo district, across from the Pacifico, is a large man-made island which constitutes the Minato Mirai Shinko District ("new harbor district"). The most recognizable feature of the island is the Cosmo World Ferris Wheel, which displays the time and was for some time considered the world's largest clock.

### Entertainment

There are many options for entertainment in the area. The Landmark Tower has an observatory on its 69th floor called the Sky Garden. The Cosmo World amusement park is spread out along the waterfront beside the Queen's Towers and on the man-made island of the Shinko District, and offers both exciting roller coasters and attractions for kids. For more sedate entertainment there is the Manyo Club, a great place for relaxation.

* 

  Sky Garden Observatory

  Hours: 10:00 to 21:00 (until 22:00 on Saturdays)  
  Admission ends 30 minutes before closing time.  
  Admission: 1000 yen (900 yen if booked through [Klook](https://www.klook.com/activity/81334-yokohama-landmark-tower-sky-garden-ticket/?aid=12675))

  Located 273 meters in the air, the Landmark Tower's Sky Garden is one of the highest observatories in the country. The elevator that takes visitors up to the observatory was the fastest in the world when it was built. There is a bar at the observatory with impressive views of the surrounding area.
* 

  Cosmo World

  Hours: 11:00 to 20:00 (longer on weekends and in summer, shorter in winter)  
  Closed: Most Thursdays (see [calendar](http://cosmoworld.jp/calendar/))  
  Admission: No entrance fee, attractions cost 300-900 yen each

  The Cosmo World amusement park has a handful of roller coaster rides, carnival attractions, a kid's zone and a large Ferris wheel that doubles as a clock. In the evening the park is illuminated, and adds to the night view of the city.
* 

  Manyo Club

  Hours: Always open  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 2950 yen (2730 yen if booked through [Klook](https://www.klook.com/activity/40225-yokohama-minatomirai-manyo-club-onsen-experience/?aid=12675))  
  Note that some of the services require additional fees.

  The Manyo Club is a spa and relaxation center, offering [hot spring](e2292.html) baths with water brought in daily by truck from the [Izu Peninsula](e6310.html). Paid services include acupuncture, foot pressure therapy and various styles of massage. Other services include restaurants, internet access and relaxation rooms.
* 

  Yokohama Air Cabin

  Hours: 10:00 to 21:00 (until 22:00 on weekends and holidays)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Fee: 1000 yen (one way), 1800 yen (round trip)

  The Yokohama Air Cabin is a roughly 600 meter long ropeway that connects Sakuragicho Station with Unga Park next to the World Porters shopping complex, not far from the Akarenga warehouses. Not only does a ride provide nice views of the urban scenery, but it also provides a convenient alternative to a 15 minute walk.

### Shopping and dining

Minato Mirai offers a wide range of shopping opportunities. The Landmark Plaza and Queen's Towers have many floors filled with the typical sorts of shops and restaurants that one would expect to find at shopping malls. On the man-made island in the Shinko district, shoppers will find a more unique selection of goods at the World Porters Mall and Red Brick Warehouses.

* 

  Queen's Square

  Hours: Most shops open 11:00 to 20:00 (most restaurants until 22:00)  
  Closed: No regular closing days

  Queen's Square is located in the lower floors of the three Queen's Towers. They offer a variety of shops and restaurants, including various well known brand stores. The Minato Mirai Station is located in the basement.
* 

  Landmark Plaza

  Hours: Most shops open 11:00 to 20:00 (most restaurants until 22:00)  
  Closed: No closing days

  The Landmark Plaza is located just beside Queen's Square and is located adjacent to the Landmark Tower. The five floors of the Landmark Plaza feature a similar variety of shops and restaurants to those found in the Queen's Towers, including a Pokemon Center on the 4th floor.
* 

  Red Brick Warehouses

  Hours: Most shops open 11:00 to 20:00 (restaurants until 23:00)  
  Closed: No closing days

  The Red Brick Warehouses ("Akarenga Soko" in Japanese) used to serve the area when it was a port, but have since been converted. They now offer a unique atmosphere for shopping. The two buildings have a number of shops that offer interesting products, as well as some restaurants and floorspace dedicated to events and exhibitions.
* 

  World Porters

  Hours: Most shops open 10:30 to 21:00 (restaurants from 11:00 to 23:00)  
  Closed: Two irregular closing days per year

  The World Porters Mall has six floors, with each one dedicated to a certain theme. From the ground floor up, they are food, fashion, sports and hobby, home and living, broadway (cinema), relaxation and interiors. The broadway floor has a movie theater and amusement center. The food floor includes an extensive supermarket.
* 

  Yokohama Hammerhead

  Hours vary, typically 11:00 to 20:00 (restaurants until 23:00)

  Yokohama Hammerhead is an international cruise terminal, which besides immigration facilities, contains an [Intercontinental Hotel](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/intercontinental-hotels-yokohama-pier-8.html?aid=355588) and a small but pleasant collection of shops and restaurants.
* 

  Marine & Walk Yokohama

  Hours: 11:00 to 20:00 (restaurants until 23:00)  
  Closed: No closing days

  Marine & Walk Yokohama is a pleasant open-air shopping mall along the waterfront with trendy boutiques and food options. Using red bricks, the complex' design blends in nicely with the nearby historic warehouses.
* 

  Mark is Minatomirai

  Shops: 10:00 to 20:00 (until 21:00 on Fridays and weekends)  
  Restaurants: 11:00 to 23:00

  Mark is Minatomirai is a large shopping mall located along the pleasant "Grand Mall Park" pedestrian zone that leads from the Landmark Tower in the direction of Yokohama Station. The complex offers a large variety of shops and restaurants over eight floors.

### Museums

There are several museums in the Minato Mirai district, including the municipal art gallery and museums on the port of Yokohama, shipping, industry and technology.

* 

  Nippon Maru and Yokohama Port Museum

  5 minute walk from Minato Mirai and Sakuragicho stations  
  Hours: 10:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Mondays (or following day if Monday is a [holiday](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission: 400 yen (Nippon Maru), 500 yen (museum), 800 yen (both)

  Built in 1930, Nippon Maru is a retired sailing ship that is permanently docked at Minato Mirai and is open to the public. Across from the ship is the Yokohama Port Museum, focusing on the port's history and broader marine topics.
* 

  [Cup Noodles Museum](/e/e3212.html)

  10 minute walk from Minato Mirai and Sakuragicho stations  
  Hours: 10:00 to 18:00 (entry until 17:00)  
  Closed: Tuesdays (or following day if Tuesday is a [holiday](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission: 500 yen (workshops extra)

  [This fun museum](e3212.html) follows the history of instant noodles with interactive exhibits, modern art and hands on experiences. For a small fee visitors can design their own cup noodles or make instant ramen noodles from scratch (reservations required). There is also a food court that serves noodle dishes from around the world.
* 

  Yokohama Museum of Art

  5 minute walk from Minato Mirai Station  
  Hours: 10:00 to 18:00 (entry until 17:30)  
  Closed: Thursdays (or following day if Thu is a [holiday](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission depends on the exhibition

  The museum focuses on contemporary art as well as Yokohama itself, the city, its role as a port, and its artists.
* 

  Mitsubishi Minatomirai Industrial Museum

  5 minute walk from Minato Mirai Station  
  Hours: 10:00 to 15:00 (until 16:00 on weekends and [national holidays](e2062.html))  
  Admission ends 30 minutes before closing time.  
  Closed: Tue and Wed (or following day if Tue or Wed is a [holiday](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html)  
  Admission: 500 yen

  The museum has six zones: space, ocean, transportation, daily life discovery, environment and technology quest. The present and future of each zone's theme is presented, with many interactive elements like computer simulators. The museum seems generally geared towards kids.

The most central station is **Minato Mirai Station** on the Minato Mirai Line, which is located in the basement of Queen's Square, two stations from Yokohama Station (3 minutes, 200 yen).

Minato Mirai is also easily accessed from **Sakuragicho Station** on the [JR Negishi Line](e2371.html) (Keihin-Tohoku Line), which is just one stop from Yokohama Station (3 minutes, 150 yen). The station is also served by the Yokohama Subway Line.

The **Yokohama Air Cabin** is an urban ropeway that connects Sakuragicho Station with the Shinko district of Minato Mirai (1000 yen one way or 1800 yen for a round trip).

The [Akaikutsu Loop Bus](e2360.html) connects Sakuragicho Station with World Porters, the Red Brick Warehouses and other sights in central Yokohama, while the [Bayside Blue Bus](e2360.html) connects Yokohama Station with Minato Mirai and other sights in central Yokohama. They cost 220 yen per ride or 600 yen for a day pass.

Minato Mirai can also be accessed by "Sea Bass" boats. They depart from Yokohama Bay Quarter (500 meters from Yokohama Station's east exit) and stop at the Yokohama Hammerhead complex (15 minutes, 700 yen one way) and the Red Brick Warehouses (15-25 minutes, 800 yen one way) before continuing on to [Yamashita Park](e3204.html). Boats operate 1-2 times per hour, but some boats skip some of the stops.

[How to get to and around Yokohama](e2360.html)