---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3974.html
title: Suntory Yamazaki Distillery
description: Visitor guide for the Suntory Yamazaki Distillery, which is located between Kyoto and Osaka.
keywords: suntory, yamazaki, distillery, whisky, whiskey, osaka, kyoto
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3473
char_count: 24030
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:43:08
---

Yamazaki whisky aged for twelve years on the left and four years on the right

The Suntory Yamazaki Distillery (サントリー山崎蒸留所, Santorī Yamazaki Jōryūsho) is a [whisky](e2037_whisky.html) distillery in the Yamazaki district roughly midway between [Osaka](e2157.html) and [Kyoto](e2158.html). Opened in 1923, the distillery produces Suntory's flagship line of Yamazaki whiskies, which have won many international awards.

The Yamazaki Distillery is surrounded by nature and greenery in a quiet and serene district that has long been known for its quality water, a key ingredient to great tasting whisky. The entire process of whisky distillation and aging is done here. A museum and distillery tours are available to tourists; however, [prior reservations](#section_admission) are required for a visit.

Entrance to the Yamazaki Whisky Museum

The **Yamazaki Whisky Museum** is a two-story building that introduces the Suntory company, its founder, Shinjiro Torii, and its history and products. The whisky distillation process is explained on the museum's second floor with miniature models of the equipment. English descriptions are provided. There is also a gift shop on the second floor, offering [whisky](e2037_whisky.html)-related snacks and goods, as well as small bottles of un-aged whisky.

On the ground floor is a whisky library, showcasing the wide variety of whiskies in various shades of brown, yellow and gold. A cash-only tasting counter can be found on the same level, and visitors are welcome to sample a dram of any of the whiskies. Menus are available in both English and Japanese. Prices per dram vary, starting from around 500 yen.

Whisky library

The distillation process can only be viewed on **guided tours** that allow for entry into the otherwise sealed-off premises. Once in the distillery, the air changes noticeably to smell like [sake](e2037_sake.html) at first before changing to whisky notes towards the end of the tour. Visitors are brought through the plant in chronological order of whisky-making, starting in the mashing area, then continuing to the fermentation washbacks and the large pot stills used for distillation, before inspecting the warehouse where the casked whiskies are allowed to mature and age.

The tour ends with a whisky tasting session which explains the differences between single malt whiskies and how to enjoy whisky. Regular and prestige tours are offered. Regular tours take about 80 minutes, while prestige tours take around two hours and cover the craftsmanship in more detail and involve the tasting of more exquisite whiskies. Visitors who join guided tours are free to visit the Yamazaki Whisky Museum before or after their tour.

Pot stills where the distillation process begins

The Suntory Yamazaki Distillery is located between [Osaka](e2157.html) and [Kyoto](e2158.html). It can be reached in about ten minutes on foot from either Yamazaki Station on the JR Kyoto Line (15 minutes, 240 yen one way from [Kyoto Station](e3922.html); or 30 minutes, 490 yen one way from [Osaka Station](e4020.html)) or Oyamazaki Station on the Hankyu Kyoto Line (30 minutes, 280 yen one way from Kyoto-Kawaramachi Station; or 35 minutes, 330 yen one way from [Osaka-Umeda Station](e4009.html)).

[How to get to and around Kyoto](e2363.html)
  
[How to get to and around Osaka](e4006.html)