---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3210.html
title: Yokohama Museum Guide
description: A guide to the best museums in Yokohama.
keywords: yokohama, museum, guide, best
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2495
char_count: 17250
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:10:00
---

There are a number interesting museums in [Yokohama](e2156.html). The city's unique history as one of Japan's first port towns to be opened to international trade in the [1850s](e2128.html) and the resulting interaction with other countries, as well as the development of trade and industry, are featured in many of the museums.

### Nautical

* 

  Nippon Maru and Yokohama Port Museum

  5 minute walk from Minato Mirai and Sakuragicho stations  
  Hours: 10:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Mondays (or following day if Monday is a [holiday](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission: 400 yen (Nippon Maru), 500 yen (museum), 800 yen (both)

  Built in 1930, Nippon Maru is a retired sailing ship that is permanently docked at Minato Mirai and is open to the public. Across from the ship is the Yokohama Port Museum, focusing on the port's history and broader marine topics.
* 

  NYK Maritime Museum•

  Closed for renovations until 2027  
  5 minute walk from Bashamichi Station

  NYK (Nippon Yusen Kaisha) is one of the world's biggest shipping companies with a long and varied history dating back to the 1880s. The museum outlines the company's history from the opening of Japan to NYK's present role in international shipping, illustrating the development of technology, commerce and politics along the way.

### Industrial

* 

  Newspark

  A few steps from Nihon-Odori Station  
  Hours: 10:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Mondays (or next day if Monday is a [holiday](e2062.html)), Dec 29 to Jan 4  
  Admission: 400 yen

  Yokohama was the birthplace of the Japanese daily newspaper, and this fact is commemorated by the Newspark museum. The museum displays elaborate exhibits from all the different periods of development of Japanese newspapers. English information is limited.
* 

  Mitsubishi Minatomirai Industrial Museum

  5 minute walk from Minato Mirai Station  
  Hours: 10:00 to 15:00 (until 16:00 on weekends and [national holidays](e2062.html))  
  Admission ends 30 minutes before closing time.  
  Closed: Tue and Wed (or following day if Tue or Wed is a [holiday](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html)  
  Admission: 500 yen

  The museum has six zones: space, ocean, transportation, daily life discovery, environment and technology quest. The present and future of each zone's theme is presented, with many interactive elements like computer simulators. The museum seems generally geared towards kids.
* 

  Silk Museum

  5 minute walk from Nihon-Odori Station  
  Hours: 9:30 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Mon (or next day if Mon is a [holiday](e2062.html)), Dec 28 to Jan 4  
  Admission: 500 yen

  For a long time, silk was the most important industry of the Japanese economy. This museum illustrates the history of silk, silk garments from Japan and around the world, and silk producing technologies (including live silkworms). The museum was was built in 1959, for the 100th anniversary of the [opening of Yokohama Port](/event/yokohama-expo/).

### Food and drink

* 

  [Kirin Beer Factory](e3211.html)

  10 minute walk from Namamugi Station  
  Hours: Tours begin every hour from 10:00 to 15:00  
  Closed: Mondays (or next day if Monday is a [national holiday](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html)  
  Admission: 500 yen

  Kirin is one of Japan's main producers of [beer](e2037.html), and the [Beer Factory](e3211.html) is part of Kirin's brewery in [Yokohama](e2156.html). The main attraction is an 80 minute tour of the brewery, which includes movies and displays about the history of beer as well as a free tasting at the end.
* 

  [Ramen Museum](e3202.html)

  10 minute walk from Shin-Yokohama Station  
  Hours: 11:00 to 21:00 (from 10:30 on weekends and [national holidays](e2062.html))  
  Closed: December 31, January 1  
  Admission: 380 yen (does not include [ramen](e2042.html))

  The [Ramen Museum](e3202.html) introduces the history of [ramen](e2042.html) and features about a dozen ramen stores with regional flavors from across Japan in a setting of Tokyo in the 1950s, the time when ramen gained popularity.
* 

  [Cup Noodles Museum](e3212.html)

  10 minute walk from Minato Mirai and Sakuragicho Stations  
  Hours: 10:00 to 18:00 (entry until 17:00)  
  Closed: Tuesdays (or next day if Tuesday is a [holiday](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission: 500 yen (workshops extra)

  This fun museum follows the history of instant noodles with interactive exhibits, modern art and hands on experiences. For a small fee visitors can design their own cup noodles or make instant ramen noodles from scratch (reservations required). There is also a food court that serves noodle dishes from around the world.

### Art

* 

  Yokohama Museum of Art

  5 minute walk from Minato Mirai Station  
  Hours: 10:00 to 18:00 (entry until 17:30)  
  Closed: Thursdays (or following day if Thu is a [holiday](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission depends on the exhibition

  The museum focuses on contemporary art as well as Yokohama itself, the city, its role as a port, and its artists.

### Zoo

* 

  [Zoorasia•](e3209.html)

  15 minute bus ride from Nakayama Station  
  Hours: 9:30 to 16:30 (entry until 16:00)  
  Closed: Tuesdays (except [national holidays](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission: 800 yen

  [Zoorasia](e3209.html) is a well designed, modern zoo, located just outside central [Yokohama](e2156.html). The zoo has animals from around the world, including polar bears and elephants, as well as a section of animals native to Japan.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

[How to get to and around Yokohama](e2360.html)