---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3930.html
title: Tofukuji Temple
description: Visitor guide for Tofukuji, a Buddhist temple in Kyoto famous for autumn leaves.
keywords: tofukuji, temple, kyoto, autumn, fall, colors, leaves, koyo
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3324
char_count: 22958
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:44:46
---

Tsutenkyo Bridge during autumn

Tofukuji (東福寺, Tōfukuji) is a large [Zen temple](e2058.html) in southeastern [Kyoto](e2158.html), which is particularly famous for its spectacular [autumn colors](e2014.html). The temple was founded in 1236 by the powerful Fujiwara clan. Its name is a combination of the names of two great temples in [Nara](e2165.html) that were also associated with the Fujiwara, [Todaiji Temple](e4100.html) and [Kofukuji Temple](e4101.html). Tofukuji has been one of the principal Zen temples in Kyoto and is the head temple of its own school within the Rinzai sect of [Zen Buddhism](e2055.html).

In autumn, people come from all over Japan to see Tofukuji's [autumn colors](e2014.html). The most popular view is of the **Tsutenkyo Bridge**, which spans a valley of lush maple trees. The view from the bridge is equally spectacular, and the 100 meter long, covered walkway becomes extremely crowded when the colors reach their peak, usually around mid to late November.

Sanmon Gate

Several parts of Tofukuji's temple grounds are free to enter, including the area around some of its largest and most impressive buildings. The 22 meter tall **Sanmon Gate** is the oldest Zen gate of its kind, dating back to 1425. Behind the gate is the **Hondo** (main hall), which is even larger but is a recent reconstruction from 1934.

Surrounding these massive structures are a few temple buildings that date back to the early [Muromachi Period](e2134.html) (1333-1573) and are rare examples of surviving Zen architecture from that era, including the meditation hall (zendo), belfry (shoro), bath (yokushitsu) and lavatory (tosu).

Hojo Garden

The **Hojo**, the head priest's former living quarters, is one of Tofukuji's two paid areas. Rock gardens were often built alongside hojo buildings, but the [gardens](e2099.html) at Tofukuji's Hojo are unique for surrounding the building on all sides. Each garden has a different character, employing pebbles, large rocks, moss, trees and checkered patterns. The Hojo was most recently reconstructed in 1890, and the gardens are relatively modern creations from the late 1930s.

The other paid area consists of the above mentioned **Tsutenkyo Bridge** and **Kaisando Hall**, which serves as the mausoleum of the temple's first head priest. The stone path in front of the Kaisando is flanked by contrasting [gardens](e2099.html) on both sides, a dry rock garden on the left and a lush pond garden on the right. The Kaisando and its gardens were last reconstructed during the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868).

Kaisando Hall

Tofukuji is a ten minute walk from Tofukuji Station on the JR Nara Line (2 minutes, 150 yen from [Kyoto Station](e3922.html)) and the Keihan Main Line. Alternatively, the temple is a ten minute walk from Tofukuji [bus](e2015.html) stop (15 minutes, 230 yen from Kyoto Station by Kyoto City Bus 208).

[How to get to and around Kyoto](e2363.html)