---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3314.html
title: SCMAGLEV and Railway Park
description: Visitor guide for the SCMAGLEV and Railway Park, JR Central's rail museum in Nagoya.
keywords: nagoya, railway, museum, jr, central, tokai, park, maglev, shinkansen, trains
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2116
char_count: 13860
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:56:16
---

World speed record holding trains

The SCMAGLEV and Railway Park is the railway museum of [Central Japan Railways](e2019.html) (JR Central). The museum seeks to educate visitors on the advances in high speed rail in Japan and displays a number of actual trains, including historic steam locomotives, world record setting experimental [shinkansen](e2018.html) (bullet train) and the latest magnetic levitating trains (maglev).

Several dozen retired train cars are on display. Many of them can be entered or viewed from underneath, and are accompanied by a host of exhibits explaining the different parts of the trains and all aspects of their operation and maintenance. Another section of the museum is dedicated to maglev trains and JR Central's plans to construct a maglev high speed link between [Tokyo](e2164.html) and [Osaka](e2157.html). The second floor of the museum also has lots of learning experiences, which are specifically geared toward young children.

A large variety of historic shinkansen, express trains and passenger cars on display

Some of the most popular attractions are the train simulators, which include driving simulators for conventional and [shinkansen](e2018.html) trains, and a train crew simulator where you can experience the duties of a train conductor in charge of opening and closing the doors. The simulators cost an additional fee (either 100 or 500 yen).

The museum also houses one of Japan's largest train dioramas with miniature trains running through detailed recreations of [Osaka](e2157.html), [Nagoya](e2155.html) and [Tokyo](e2164.html). Another collection displays historical artifacts from the early days of Japanese railways. A free English audio guide is available for rent which provides detailed explanations of the museum exhibits.

Railway Diorama

From Nagoya Station, take the Aonami Line to its terminal station, Kinjofuto Station. The one way ride takes about 25 minutes, costs 360 yen and is not covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html). Trains depart approximately every 15 minutes. SCMAGLEV and Railway Park is just a few steps from Kinjofuto Station. It is also located close to [Legoland](e3317.html).

[How to get to and around Nagoya](e3302.html)