---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3308.html
title: Toyota-related attractions
description: Visitor guide for the various Toyota-related attractions found around Nagoya.
keywords: nagoya, toyota, museum, kaikan
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2189
char_count: 14352
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:56:37
---

Toyota Kaikan Museum

Japan's leading car manufacturer, Toyota, has its headquarters and many of its domestic production plants in the region around [Nagoya](e2155.html). The company's headquarters are located in the city of Toyota, less than one hour east of central Nagoya. Next to the headquarters stands the **Toyota Kaikan Museum**, where Toyota displays its new models and technologies to the public.

The Kaikan Museum also used to serve as the meeting point for plant tours; however, they were discontinued during the coronavirus pandemic.

Exhibit at the Toyota Commemorative Museum of Industry and Technology

The best substitute for a plant tour is a visit to the **Toyota Commemorative Museum of Industry and Technology** in central [Nagoya](e2155.html). The museum introduces the history of Toyota from its beginnings as a textile machinery manufacturer and also features many exhibits on automotive technologies and the car production process.

Car fans should also consider a visit to the **Toyota Automobile Museum**, which exhibits Japanese, European and American automobiles from the late 1800s to the 1960s.

Toyota Automobile Museum

### Toyota Kaikan Museum

From central Nagoya, take the Tsurumai Subway Line to Toyota-shi Station (50 minutes, about 830 yen; many trains on the Tsurumai Line continue to run on the Meitetsu Toyota Line all the way to Toyota-shi Station). From Toyota-shi Station, take a bus bound for Toyota Kinen Byoin (トヨタ記念病院) and get off at Toyota Honsha-mae (トヨタ本社前, 20 minutes, 340 yen). Alternatively, take the Aichi Loop Line to Mikawa-Toyota Station from where it is a 15-minute walk to the Toyota Kaikan.

### Toyota Commemorative Museum of Industry and Technology

The museum is a short walk from Sako Station which is one station north from Nagoya Station along the Meitetsu Railway (2 minutes, 180 yen one way). It is also the first stop after Nagoya Station along the [Meguru loop bus](e3302.html) line (10 minutes, 210 yen per ride or 500 yen for a 1-day pass). Alternatively, you can walk from Nagoya Station to the museum in about 20 minutes.

### Toyota Automobile Museum

From central Nagoya, take the Higashiyama Subway Line to Fujigaoka Station and transfer to the Linimo elevated train. The museum is a few steps from Geidaidori Station. The trip from central Nagoya takes about 45 minutes and costs 610 yen one way.

[How to get to and around Nagoya](e3302.html)