---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3063.html
title: Sanja Matsuri 2026 (Sanja Festival)
description: Visitor guide for Tokyo's Sanja Matsuri held in Asakusa
keywords: sanja, matsuri, festival, tokyo, asakusa, parade, jidai, mikoshi, shrine, sensoji, jinja
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3102
char_count: 21758
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:57:09
---

A mikoshi being carried down Nakamise Dori

**The 2026 Sanja Matsuri will be held from May 15 to 17.**

The Sanja Festival (三社祭, Sanja Matsuri) is an annual festival in the [Asakusa](e3004.html) district that usually takes place over the third full weekend in May. It is held in celebration of the three founders of [Sensoji Temple](e3001.html), who are enshrined in Asakusa Shrine next door to the temple. Nearly two million people visit Asakusa over the three days of the festival, making it one of [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s most popular festivals.

The Sanja Matsuri features about one hundred portable shrines (mikoshi) in which Shinto deities (kami) are symbolically placed into and paraded about the streets to bring good fortune to the local businesses and residents. Smaller neighborhood mikoshi can be seen about the streets of Asakusa throughout the festival, while the focus of the festival, the three large mikoshi belonging to Asakusa Shrine, make their appearance on Sunday. For the entirety of the festival, [Asakusa](e3004.html) is packed with food stalls, festival games and revelers amid a lively atmosphere of Japanese drums and flutes.

Daigyoretsu Parade

The festivities begin on **Friday** afternoon with the Daigyoretsu Parade, a large procession of priests, city officials, [geisha](e2102.html), musicians and dancers wearing [Edo Period](e2128.html) costumes. They proceed along Yanagi Dori to [Sensoji Temple](e3001.html) and Asakusa Shrine. A Shinto ceremony is held immediately after the parade, followed by a traditional dance to pray for an abundant harvest and prosperity. In the afternoon the first of the portable shrines (mikoshi) of Asakusa's local neighborhoods are brought out and carried through the streets, accompanied by musicians playing Japanese drums and flutes.

**Saturday** features the neighborhood mikoshi, nearly 100 of them from the district's 44 neighborhoods, which are brought out around noon and carried to Sensoji Temple and Asakusa Shrine to be blessed before they are carried back to be paraded around their neighborhoods to spread luck and prosperity. Many neighborhoods also have smaller children's mikoshi as well as women's mikoshi.

A neighborhood mikoshi at Kaminarimon Gate

The events of **Sunday**, the final day of the festival, begin at 6:00 AM when hundreds of revelers, grouped by their neighborhoods and wearing matching festival garbs, gather at Asakusa Shrine and vie to carry one of the three large main mikoshi (portable shrines). The groups are very competitive as they jostle to carry the mikoshi. Consequently, spectators are not allowed beyond [Sensoji](e3001.html)'s entrance gates during this part of the festival due to space and safety concerns.

After about two hours the mikoshi head off in different directions to be paraded through the district. By the end of the evening, they will have visited all of the streets, shopping arcades and neighborhoods of [Asakusa](e3004.html) before returning to Asakusa Shrine.

One of the three main mikoshi is paraded through a shopping arcade

The Sanja Matsuri takes place on and around the grounds of Asakusa Shrine and [Sensoji Temple](e3001.html), a few steps from Asakusa Station, which is served by the Ginza Subway Line, Asakusa Subway Line and Tobu Railway.

### From Tokyo Station

Take the [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html) to Kanda Station (2 minutes, 150 yen) and transfer to the Ginza Subway Line for Asakusa (10 minutes, 180 yen).

### From Shinjuku Station

Take the orange [JR Chuo Line](e2372.html) to Kanda Station (10 minutes, 180 yen) and transfer to the Ginza Subway Line for Asakusa (10 minutes, 180 yen).

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)