---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3024.html
title: Kasai Rinkai Park (Kasai Marine Park)
description: Visitor guide for Kasai Rinkai Park, a park at Tokyo Bay.
keywords: Kasai, Rinkai, Park, marine, seashore, koen, tokyo
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2861
char_count: 20082
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:56:50
---

Opened in 1989, Kasai Rinkai Park (葛西臨海公園, Kasai Rinkai Kōen) is the largest [park](e3034.html) in central [Tokyo](e2164.html), located just across the Edogawa River from [Tokyo Disney Resort](e3016.html). It was built on reclaimed land and developed in an effort to restore and preserve natural Tokyo Bay habitat.

The park offers a nice break from the surrounding cityscapes and has a number of walking trails that crisscross the gardens, lawns and [beaches](e2461.html). In addition, the park features an aquarium, a Ferris wheel, a seabird sanctuary and an observation building.

Observation Building

Near the center of the park is the **Tokyo Sealife Park**. The [aquarium](e2425.html)'s main tank has a viewing area in its center that immerses you in the middle of various species of fish including tuna, bonito and sharks. The aquarium also has good penguin and seabird exhibits.

The park's most visible landmark is the **Diamond and Flowers Ferris Wheel**, named after its light shows that resemble sparkling diamonds and flowers. Standing 117 meters tall, it used to be the world's tallest Ferris Wheel when it opened in 2001. Today it is Japan's second tallest (after the one in [Osaka Expocity](e4029.html)) and offers views of Tokyo Bay and as far away as [Mt. Fuji](e2172.html).

In line with the park's goal as a bay habitat preserve, nearly a third of the park is designated as a **Sea Bird Sanctuary**. Bird lovers and photographers are free to roam the area, except the marsh areas which are restricted. The Sea Bird Center has information on the local birds.

Bird Sanctuary

### By train

The park is just next to Kasai Rinkai Koen Station on the JR Keiyo and JR Musushino lines, 10-15 minutes and 230 yen from Tokyo Station. Note that the platforms of the Keiyo Line at Tokyo Station are located a 10 minute walk from the station's other platforms.

### By boat

There are infrequent [water buses](e3042.html) that connect Kasai Rinkai Koen with [Odaiba](e3008.html) and [Ryogoku](e3022.html).

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)