---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3475.html
title: Onomichi Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Onomichi, a small town located in eastern Hiroshima Prefecture fmaous for its Temple Walk.
keywords: onomichi, guide, travel, tourism, sightseeing, tourist, city, visitor, trip
content_type: attraction
word_count: 437
char_count: 3392
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:41:33
---

Onomichi (尾道) is a quaint town located along the [Seto Inland Sea](e5445.html) in eastern [Hiroshima Prefecture](/list/e1238.html). The town extends from the mainland across some of the neighboring islands, which are connected by the bridges of the [Shimanami Kaido](e3478.html). Small ferries operate between downtown and the nearby islands, adding to Onomichi's nostalgic port town atmosphere.

Onomichi is characterized by its many slopes, up and around which the town spreads. Many of the town's attractions are located along the slopes, and visitors will need to walk up the narrow lanes that cut through the residential areas to reach them. Onomichi's famous [Temple Walk](e3477.html), for example, will take visitors up and down the slopes as it leads past the route's 25 [temples](e2058.html).

Despite its small size, Onomichi has made significant contributions to both the literary and cinematic world. Respected authors and directors were born in the city, and it has been the filming location for numerous movies and TV dramas. This history is celebrated in a few museums located throughout the town, many located along or just off of the [Temple Walk](e3477.html).

One of the most unique attractions of Onomichi is the [Shimanami Kaido](e3478.html). The route, which passes across bridges and islands of the Seto Inland Sea, is the only land connection between Japan's main island of Honshu and [Shikoku](/list/e1107.html) that is traversable by cyclists and pedestrians. Along the way there are two particular attractions of interest to visitors: the [Hirayama Museum](e3479.html) and the unique [Kosanji Temple](e3480.html).

* [](/e/e3478.html)

  1

  Scenic Ride

  [Shimanami Kaido•](/e/e3478.html)

  Cycling route across the Seto Inland Sea.

  4.4

  

  232
* [](/e/e3477.html)

  2

  Temple

  [Temple Walk•](/e/e3477.html)

  Pleasant walk through downtown Onomichi.

  4.0

  

  204
* [](/e/e3480.html)

  3

  Temple

  [Kosanji Temple•](/e/e3480.html)

  Unique temple with various attractions.

  3.9

  

  129
* [](/e/e3479.html)

  4

  Museum

  [Hirayama Ikuo Museum](/e/e3479.html)

  Dedicated to the painter Hirayama Ikuo.

  3.4

  

  34

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Onomichi](/e/e3475.html)

[Getting to and around Onomichi](/e/e3476.html)
[See access info](/e/e3476.html)