---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3008.html
title: Odaiba (Daiba)
description: Visitor guide for the futuristic Odaiba district in Tokyo.
keywords: daiba, odaiba, tokyo, japan
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3880
char_count: 27390
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:58:08
---

Rainbow Bridge from Odaiba

Odaiba (お台場) is a popular shopping and entertainment district on a man-made island in Tokyo Bay. It originated as a set of small man-made fort islands (daiba literally means "fort"), which were built in the late [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868) to protect [Tokyo](e2164.html) against possible attacks from the sea and specifically in response to the gunboat diplomacy of [Commodore Perry](e2128.html).

More than a century later, the small islands were joined into larger islands by massive landfills, and Tokyo began a spectacular development project aimed to turn the islands into a futuristic new city district during the extravagant 1980s. But development was critically slowed after the burst of the "bubble economy" in the early 1990s, leaving Odaiba nearly vacant.

Odaiba's waterfront

It was not until the second half of the 1990s, when several hotels, shopping malls and the Yurikamome elevated train line were opened, that Odaiba developed into a popular [tourist attraction](e623a.html) and dating spot with a wide selection of shopping, dining and leisure options.

Despite the initial setbacks, several lavish development projects did materialize, including some of Tokyo's boldest architectural creations, such as the [Fuji TV Building](e3008.html#fuji), [Telecom Center](e3008.html#telecom) and [Tokyo Big Sight](e3008.html#bigsight). Modern city planning furthermore provides Odaiba with plenty of green space and a pleasant division of motorized and pedestrian traffic using elevated walkways.

### Fuji TV Area

* 

  Fuji TV Building

  Hours: 10:00 to 18:00  
  Closed: Mondays (or Tuesday if Monday is a [national holiday](e2062.html)).  
  Admission: Free (observation deck: 700 yen)

  The headquarters of Fuji Television, one of Japan's private, nationwide TV stations. You can see some exhibits on popular programs, buy Fuji TV goods at a shop and access the futuristic looking building's observatory deck housed in the sphere shaped part of the building.
* 

  Decks Tokyo Beach

  Shops: 11:00 to 20:00 (weekdays), 10:00 to 21:00 (weekends)  
  Restaurants: 11:00 to 23:00  
  Theme Parks: various hours  
  Admission: Free (separate admission fees for theme parks)

  Decks is a shopping mall featuring shops, restaurants and multiple indoor theme parks, including Tokyo Joypolis, Legoland Discovery Center, a Madam Tussauds wax museum and a trick art museum.
* 

  Aquacity Odaiba

  Shops: 11:00 to 21:00  
  Restaurants: 11:00 to 23:00

  Aquacity is a shopping mall featuring various stores, boutiques, restaurants, cafes and a cinema complex. The fifth floor houses a ramen food theme park where you can try different [ramen](e2042.html) from all over Japan. There are nice views of the Rainbow Bridge from the wooden deck in front of Aquacity and neighboring Decks.
* 

  DiverCity Tokyo Plaza

  Shops: 11:00 to 20:00 (weekdays), 10:00 to 21:00 (weekends)  
  Restaurants: 11:00 to 22:00

  This shopping, dining and entertainment complex opened in 2012 and features attractions related to the Gundam [anime](e2070.html) series, including a large, "life-size" Gundam statue in front of the building and Gundam Base Tokyo, a shop dedicated to plastic models.
* 

  Rainbow Bridge

  The Rainbow Bridge connects Odaiba to the rest of Tokyo. The two-story bridge is an iconic symbol of the bay and is especially beautiful during its nightly illumination. The bridge supports an [expressway](e2354.html), a regular road, the Yurikamome train line and [pedestrian walkways](#foot).

### Telecom Center Area

* 

  Telecom Center

  Observation Deck: 15:00 to 20:00 (from 11:00 on weekends)  
  Admission: 500 yen

  The Telecom Center is a major hub on the information highway with several large satellite antennas on its observation deck. The observation deck also offers nice view of the bay area and as far as [Mount Fuji](e2172.html) on clear days.
* 

  Soya Icebreaker

  Hours: 10:00 to 16:30  
  Closed: Mondays (or next day if Monday is a [holiday](e2062.html)) and Dec 28 to Jan 4  
  Admission: Free

  Built in 1938, this icebreaker was the first Japanese research ship to make multiple trips to the Antarctic in the 1950s and 1960s. Today, it can be entered by the public and is the last remaining part from the former Museum of Maritime Science, which used to stand here.
* 

  National Museum of Emerging Science and Innovation

  Hours: 10:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Tuesdays (except [national holidays](e2062.html)) and Dec 28 to Jan 1  
  Admission: 630 yen

  Also known as the Miraikan, this well done, highly interactive and bilingual science museum includes exhibits about environmental issues, robots, information technology, biology and space exploration.

### Big Sight Area

* 

  Tokyo Big Sight

  Hours and admission fees depend on the specific events.

  Also known as Tokyo International Exhibition Center, Tokyo Big Sight is Japan's largest exhibition and convention center and one of the bay islands' boldest architectural creations. A wide array of events are held at the Big Sight throughout the year including [AnimeJapan](e3045.html) and the [Tokyo Motor Show](e6460.html).
* 

  Panasonic Center

  Hours: 10:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: Mondays, [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission: Free (Akerue: 700 yen, requires [advance reservations](https://www.e-tix.jp/akerue_panasonic/en/))

  The Panasonic Center is a showroom for the latest products and technologies by the Panasonic Corporation. On display are the newest TVs, computers, games, home appliances and more. Akerue, a hands-on creative museum, can be found on the second and third floors.
* 

  Ariake Garden

  Shops: 10:00 to 21:00  
  Restaurants: 11:00 to 23:00

  Ariake Garden is a large and attractive shopping, entertainment and recreation complex that opened in 2020 not far from Tokyo Big Sight. Besides a sizeable shopping mall with basement [supermarket](e2073.html), the complex offers an [onsen](e2292.html) facility, an event hall, theater venue, Villa Fontaine hotel and various terraces to sit down and take a break.
* 

  Small Worlds Tokyo

  Hours: 9:00 to 19:00 (entry until 18:00)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 2700 yen ([book online](https://www.klook.com/activity/66249-small%20worlds%20tokyo-admission%20passport/?aid=12675))

  Small Worlds is a "miniature theme park" which offers 1:80 miniature worlds in six areas, including a space center, global village, a [Kansai Airport](e2033.html) and Sailor Moon and Evangelion-themed areas. At an additional cost, visitors can use a 3D scanner to create miniature models of themselves to be placed into the miniature world.

Access to Odaiba can be an attraction in itself, as the views of the Rainbow Bridge and [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s harbor and waterfront area from the Yurikamome elevated train and [boats](e3042.html) are quite spectacular. Furthermore, it is also possible to walk across the Rainbow Bridge.

### By Yurikamome

The Yurikamome is an automated, elevated train with rubber tires, which connects Shimbashi Station on the [Yamanote Line](e2370.html) with all of Odaiba's attractions and [Toyosu](e3013.html) Station on the Yurakucho Subway Line. Trains depart every few minutes, and a ride between Shimbashi and Daiba Station takes 15 minutes and costs 330 yen (not covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html)). If you ride the Yurikamome more than twice, a 1-day pass for 820 yen will likely pay off.

The Yurikamome crosses the Rainbow Bridge to get to Odaiba from Shimbashi and offers spectacular views of the harbor and the Tokyo waterfront. Sit or stand at the very front of the train for the most impressive views.

### By Rinkai Line

The [Rinkai Line](e2373.html) connects Osaki Station on the [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html) with Shin-Kiba Station on the JR Keiyo Line, stopping at the Tokyo Teleport and Kokusai Tenjijo underground stations on Odaiba along the way. Some trains on the [JR Saikyo Line](e2373.html) continue to run on the Rinkai Line and provide direct connections between [Shinjuku](e3011.html), [Shibuya](e3007.html) and Odaiba.

The ride from Shinjuku to Tokyo Teleport Station on Odaiba takes 25 minutes and costs 520 yen. Note that the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), [Seishun 18 Kippu](e2362.html) and similar [JR](e2019.html) tickets are not valid on the Rinkai Line between Osaki and Shin-Kiba, even though the line is served by JR trains. An exception is the [JR Tokyo Wide Pass](e2361_06.html), which fully covers the Rinkai Line.

### By bus

A JR [bus](e2015.html) connects [Tokyo Station](e3037.html) (Yaeso Exit) with Kokusai Tenjijo Station, Tokyo Big Sight and the Tokyo Ferry Terminal about once per hour. The one way ride takes about 30 minutes, costs 400 yen and is covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html).

Furthermore, "Tokyo BRT" (bus rapid transit) operates roughly three buses per hour between Shimbashi Station on the [Yamanote Line](e2370.html), [Toyosu Market](e3013_market.html), Ariake Tennis no Mori and Tokyo Big Sight. The fare is 220 yen per ride and not covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html). The ride from Shimbashi to Tokyo Big Sight takes only around 15 minutes.

### By boat

[Tokyo Water Bus](e3042.html) operates boats from Odaiba Seaside Park to Hinode Pier (20 minutes, 600 yen) and [Asakusa](e3004.html) (60 minutes, 2000 yen by direct boat).

Crossing Rainbow Bridge on foot

### On foot

It is possible to cross the Rainbow Bridge on foot. The walk takes about 30-45 minutes and offers nice views of the waterfront area. The pedestrian path begins a short walk from Shibaura-futo Station along the Yurikamome on the "Tokyo side", while Odaiba Kaihinkoen Station is the nearest station on the "Odaiba side". There are walkways on both sides of the bridge. It is not allowed to ride bicycles across the bridge.

Note that the pedestrian walkways gets closed during the night (21:00 to 9:00 from April to October, 18:00 to 10:00 from November to March) and on the third Monday of every month (or the next day if that Monday is a [public holiday](e2062.html)).

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)