---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3007.html
title: Shibuya
description: Visitor guide for the Shibuya shopping and entertainment district in Tokyo.
keywords: shibuya, tokyo, japan
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3850
char_count: 27065
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:58:11
---

The famous crossing in front of Shibuya Station

Shibuya (渋谷) is one of the 23 city wards of [Tokyo](e2164.html), but often refers to just the popular shopping and entertainment area found around Shibuya Station. In this regard, Shibuya is one of Tokyo's most colorful and busy districts, packed with shopping, dining and nightclubs serving swarms of visitors that come to the district everyday.

Shibuya is a center for **youth fashion and culture**, and its streets are the birthplace to many of Japan's fashion and entertainment trends. Numerous department stores and shopping malls can be found around the area catering to all types of shoppers. Many of the area's large shopping complexes belong to either [Tokyu](#tokyushopping) or [Seibu](#seibushopping), two competing corporations.

Center Gai at night

Shibuya's most prominent landmark is the **busy intersection** in front of the station's [Hachiko Exit](#hachiko). The intersection is heavily decorated by neon advertisements and giant video screens and gets flooded by pedestrians each time the lights turn green, making it a popular photo spot.

Shibuya Station and surroundings are currently undergoing **major redevelopment**, lasting almost two decades. Several new buildings have opened over recent years, including [Hikarie](#hikarie) (in 2012), [Stream](#stream) (2018), [Scramble Square](#scramble) (2019), [Miyashita Park](#miyashita) (2020) and [Sakura Stage](#sakura) (2024), and more will be opening until works are completed around 2028. In addition, the flow of pedestrian traffic around the station is gradually being improved.

### Famous streets and districts

* 

  Center Gai

  The birthplace of many Japanese fashion trends, Center Gai is a busy pedestrian zone in the heart of Shibuya lined by stores, boutiques and game centers. In the evenings the street is crowded with young people heading to night clubs, restaurants and bars.
* 

  Koen Dori

  Koen Dori ("Park Street") is a popular shopping street leading to [Yoyogi Park](e3034_002.html). It was named after [Parco](#parco) department store (parco is Italian for park) and the fact that the street leads to Yoyogi Park.
* 

  Spain Slope

  Spain Slope (Supeinzaka) is a narrow, approximately 100 meter long pedestrian street with stairs leading up the slope to the [Parco](#parco) department store. It is lined by boutiques, cafes and restaurants, and was nicknamed for its resemblance to a Spanish street scene.
* 

  Love Hotel Hill

  This area of Shibuya has a high concentration of [love hotels](e2031.html), which offer couples a private room for a 2-4 hour "rest" during the day (around 5,000 yen) or an overnight "stay" (around 10,000 yen).

### Tokyu-affiliated attractions

* 

  Shibuya Scramble Square

  Shops: 10:00 to 21:00  
  Restaurants: 11:00 to 23:00  
  Observation Deck Hours: 10:00 to 22:30 (entry until 21:20)  
  Observation Deck Admission: 2700 yen (also available [online](https://www.klook.com/activity/70672-shibuya-sky-tokyo/?aid=12675))

  Opened in November 2019, [Shibuya Scramble Square](/blog/schauwecker/191024.html) rises 230 meters above Shibuya Station. The skyscraper's lower 14 floors offer shops and restaurants, while the top floors feature an excellent [observatory](e3057.html) with open-air deck, called Shibuya Sky.
* 

  Shibuya 109

  Hours: 10:00 to 21:00  
  Restaurants: 11:00 to 21:00

  Shibuya 109 is a trend-setting fashion complex for young women and an icon of the Shibuya district with more than one hundred boutiques on ten floors. Usually pronounced "Shibuya ichi maru kyu", the complex's name can also be read as "Shibuya to kyu", identifying the complex as part of the Tokyu Group.
* 

  Shibuya Hikarie

  Shops: 11:00 to 21:00 (until 20:00 on Sundays and [holidays](e2062.html))  
  Restaurants: 11:00 to 23:00

  Shibuya Hikarie is a high rise complex with cultural space just east of Shibuya Station. Besides a theater and exhibition floors, it offers shopping and dining on its lower floors and offices further up.
* 

  Tokyu Plaza Shibuya

  Hours: typically 11:00 to 20:00  
  Restaurants: typically 11:00 to 23:00

  Opened in 2019, this complex offers a variety of shops and restaurants on floors 2-8 and on the top floors 17-18, collectively known as "Shibuya Fukuras". An observation deck with nice lounging and dining options is located on the 17th floor.
* 

  Shibuya Sakura Stage

  Shops: typically 10:00 to 21:00  
  Restaurants: typically 11:00 to 23:00

  Opened in 2024, this new addition adjacent to the southwest of Shibuya Station improves pedestrian streams south of the station, while offering dozens of new shops and restaurants, as well as some pleasant terraces. The complex consists of the Shibuya side and Sakura side, which are divided by a road.
* 

  Shibuya Stream

  Restaurants: typically 11:00 to 22:00

  Opened in 2018, [Shibuya Stream](/blog/schauwecker/180905.html) features a collection of interesting restaurants on its first three floors, a hotel, and the offices of the Google Japan headquarters. Next to the building, the Shibuya River emerges from the underground, and a pedestrian promenade follows the river for several hundred meters.
* 

  Shibuya Mark City

  Hours: typically 10:00 to 21:00  
  Restaurants: typically 11:00 to 23:00

  Shibuya Mark City is a small city within the city, located just next to and connected with JR Shibuya Station. It consists of a wide range of stores and restaurants, the [Shibuya Excel Hotel Tokyu](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/shibuya-excel-tokyu.html?aid=371183), office space, a bus terminal and the terminal station of the Keio Inokashira Line.

### Seibu-affiliated attractions

* 

  Seibu

  Hours: 10:00 to 20:00  
  Restaurants: 11:00 to 22:00

  The Shibuya branch of the Seibu department store chain consists of nine floors, featuring mainly fashion goods and some fashion boutiques. Restaurants can be found on the top and bottom floors.
* 

  Loft

  Hours: 11:00 to 21:00

  Loft is Seibu's answer to [Hands](#hands), offering a large array of products related to interior, hobby and crafts, but with less emphasis on do-it-yourself products. The Loft Shibuya branch consists of seven floors.
* 

  Parco

  Shops: typically 11:00 to 21:00  
  Restaurants: typically 11:30 to 23:00

  Parco is an 11-story shopping complex with an emphasis on youth culture, art, music and fashion. The complex was rebuilt in recent years and reopened in 2019 with several pleasant outdoor terraces. The 6th floor is filled with shops loved by otaku, including a Nintendo store, Pokemon Center, Jump Shop and Capcom Store.

### Other points of interest

* 

  Miyashita Park

  Shops: 11:00 to 21:00 (restaurants until 23:00)

  Named after the public park it replaced, Miyashita Park is a large shopping complex with a park on its rooftop. An interesting selection of shops and restaurants are found in the attractively designed building, while the rooftop offers a skateboard park, a bouldering wall and a sand-covered field for activities such as beach volleyball.
* 

  Hands

  Hours: 10:00 to 21:00

  This Shibuya branch is the flagship store of Hands (formerly known as Tokyu Hands). Spanning eight floors, it offers everything from do-it-yourself to interior, hobby, crafts, outdoors and stationery.
* 

  Hachiko Statue

  A statue of a loyal dog named Hachiko. According to a famous story, the dog waited for his master every day in front of Shibuya Station and continued to do so for years even after his master had passed away. It is one of Tokyo's most popular meeting points.

Shibuya Station is one of Tokyo's busiest stations. It is served by the [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html), [JR Saikyo Line](e2373.html), [JR Shonan Shinjuku Line](e2374.html), Hanzomon Subway Line, Ginza Subway Line, Fukutoshin Subway Line, Tokyu Toyoko Line, Tokyu Den-Entoshi Line and Keio Inokashira Line. It is also served by many [Narita Express](e2027.html) trains.

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)