---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3918.html
title: Nijo Castle (Nijojo)
description: Visitor guide for Nijo Castle (Nijojo), the Tokugawa shoguns' Kyoto residence.
keywords: nijo, castle, nijojo, kyoto
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3688
char_count: 25410
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:45:01
---

Nijo Castle (二条城, Nijōjō) was built in 1603 as the [Kyoto](e2158.html) residence of [Tokugawa Ieyasu](e2128.html), the first shogun of the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868). His grandson Iemitsu completed the castle's palace buildings 23 years later and expanded the castle by adding a five story [castle keep](e2296.html).

After the Tokugawa Shogunate fell in 1867, Nijo Castle was used as an [imperial](e2135.html) palace for a while before being donated to the city and opened up to the public as a historic site. Its palace buildings are arguably the best surviving examples of castle palace architecture of Japan's feudal era, and the castle was designated a [UNESCO world heritage site](e2251.html) in 1994.

Nijo Castle can be divided into three areas: the Honmaru (main circle of defense), the Ninomaru (secondary circle of defense) and some gardens around them. The entire castle grounds and the Honmaru are surrounded by stone walls and moats.

Karamon Gate

Visitors to Nijo Castle enter the castle grounds through a large gate in the east. English audio guides are available for rent at a kiosk just inside the gate. Venturing further into the castle will bring you to the Chinese-style Karamon Gate, the entrance to the **Ninomaru** (secondary circle of defense), where the castle's main attraction, the Ninomaru Palace is located.

The **Ninomaru Palace** served as the residence and office of the [shogun](e2128.html) during his visits to [Kyoto](e2158.html). Surviving in its original form, the palace consists of multiple separate buildings that are connected with each other by corridors with so called nightingale floors, as they squeak when stepped upon as a security measure against intruders. The palace rooms are [tatami](e2007.html) mat covered and feature decorated ceilings and beautifully painted [sliding doors](e2007.html) (fusuma).

Ninomaru Palace

The tour route passes by multiple waiting and audience rooms. Only the highest ranked visitors were allowed all the way into the main audience room where the [shogun](e2128.html) would sit on an elevated floor, flanked by bodyguards hidden behind doors. Lower ranked visitors would be allowed only as far as the adjoining rooms without direct view of the shogun. The innermost rooms consisted of offices and living chambers, the latter of which were only accessible to the shogun and his female attendants.

Note that to view the interior of the Ninomaru Palace, visitors need to pay an additional fee. Outside of the Ninomaru Palace extends the Ninomaru Garden, a traditional Japanese [landscape garden](e2099.html) with a large pond, ornamental stones and manicured pine trees.

Ninomaru Garden

The **Honmaru** (main circle of defense) was the site of a second palace complex and a five story [castle keep](e2296.html). However, both structures were destroyed by fires in the 18th century and were never rebuilt. After the fall of the [shogunate](e2128.html), an [imperial](e2135.html) residence was moved here from the [Kyoto Imperial Palace](e3917.html) where it remains today as the Honmaru Palace.

The interior of the Honmaru Palace was closed to the public for many years, but it was reopened to the public in September 2024. Entering it requires an advance reservation and an additional fee. All castle visitors can also walk around the Honmaru gardens and climb up the stone foundation of the former castle keep, which offers views over the castle grounds.

Honmaru

The Honmaru and Ninomaru are surrounded by green space and tree-lined walking paths. [Cherry trees](e2011.html) of numerous [varieties](e2011_species.html) are planted throughout the castle grounds, including nearly 400 cherry trees of late blooming varieties in a cherry orchard. Because of the many cherry tree varieties present, the blooming season at Nijo Castle usually lasts from late March through the entire month of April.

The castle also features a [plum](e2013.html) orchard, which is typically in bloom from late February to early March, and Seiryuen, a half Japanese, half Western style garden built in 1965 for cultural events such as [tea ceremonies](e2096.html). Many areas of the castle grounds are also populated by maple, ginkgo and other trees that offer brilliant [autumn colors](e2014.html) usually during the second half of November.

Nijojo during the cherry blossom season

The entrance of Nijo Castle is a few steps from Nijojo-mae Station on the Tozai Subway Line.

From [Kyoto Station](e3922.html), take the Karasuma Subway Line to Karasuma-Oike Station and transfer to the Tozai Line to Nijojo-mae Station. The whole trip takes about 15 minutes and costs 260 yen. Alternatively, the castle can be reached from Kyoto Station by Kyoto City Bus numbers 9 or 50 (15-20 minutes, 230 yen one way) or from Shijo-Kawaramachi by Kyoto City Bus number 12 (15 minutes, 230 yen one way).

[How to get to and around Kyoto](e2363.html)