---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3959.html
title: Higashiyama District
description: Visitor guide to the Higashiyama District of Kyoto which includes the Sannenzaka and Ninenzaka areas.
keywords: kyoto, higashiyama, district, sannenzaka, sanneizaka, ninenzaka, nineizaka
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3424
char_count: 23757
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:44:09
---

Higashiyama around the Sannenzaka steps

The Higashiyama District (東山) along the lower slopes of [Kyoto](e2158.html)'s eastern mountains is one of the city's best preserved [historic districts](e2422.html). It is a great place to experience traditional old Kyoto, especially between [Kiyomizudera](e3901.html) and [Yasaka Shrine](e3903.html), where the narrow lanes, wooden buildings and traditional merchant shops invoke a feeling of the old capital city.

The streets in Higashiyama are lined by small shops, cafes and restaurants which have been catering to tourists and pilgrims for centuries. These businesses retain their traditional design, although many have been renovated through the years, and they continue to serve customers today, selling local specialties such as [pottery](e2329.html), [sweets](e2312.html), [pickles](e2349.html), [crafts](e3944.html) and other souvenirs.

Many shops line Higashiyama's streets

The shops and restaurants in the area typically open around nine or ten in the morning and close relatively early around five or six in the evening. While the walk through the Higashiyama District between [Kiyomizudera](e3901.html) and [Yasaka Shrine](e3903.html) is only about two kilometers long and could be done in half an hour, you could easily spend half a day or more in the area, visiting the various temples, shrines, shops and cafes along the way. Good walkers are likely to enjoy walking beyond Yasaka Shrine past [Chionin](e3928.html) and [Shorenin](e3954.html) to [Heian Shrine](e3904.html) and possibly as far as [Ginkakuji Temple](e3907.html) via [Nanzenji](e3905.html) and the [Philosopher's Path](e3906.html).

* 

  [Kiyomizudera Temple](e3901.html)

  Hours: 6:00 to 18:00 (until 18:30 in July and August)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 500 yen

  [Kiyomizudera](e3901.html) is one of Japan's most popular temples. It stands in the wooded hills of eastern Kyoto and offers visitors a nice view over the city from its famous wooden terrace. The busy approach to the temple is lined by dozens of shops and restaurants that have been catering to pilgrims and tourists for centuries.
* 

  [Kodaiji Temple](e3927.html)

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:30 (entry until 17:00)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Fee: 600 yen

  [Kodaiji Temple](e3927.html) was constructed in 1605 in memory of Toyotomi Hideyoshi by the great political leader's wife. It features temple halls, gravel and landscape gardens, teahouses and a bamboo grove.
* 

  Yasaka Pagoda

  Open irregularly from 10:00 to 16:00  
  Fee: 500 yen

  Yasaka Pagoda, the last remnant of Hokanji Temple, is one of the most visible and recognizable landmarks in the district. The interior of the pagoda is occasionally open to visitors, which is a rare opportunity as most pagoda can only be viewed from the outside.
* 

  [Yasaka Shrine](e3903.html)

  Hours: Always open  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Fee: Free

  [Yasaka Shrine](e3903.html), host to the [Gion Matsuri](e3942.html), is one of Kyoto's most popular shrines and is located at the eastern end of Shijo-dori next to [Maruyama Park](e3925.html). The shrine's lanterns are lit every evening.
* 

  [Maruyama Park](e3925.html)

  Hours: Always open  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Fee: Free

  [Maruyama Park](e3925.html) is a public park next to [Yasaka Shrine](e3903.html). During the first half of April, when the cherry trees are usually in full bloom, Maruyama Park becomes Kyoto's most popular and most crowded spot for [cherry blossom viewing](e2011.html).

From [Kyoto Station](e3922.html) take [bus](e2015.html) number 206 in the direction of [Kiyomizudera](e3901.html). The Higashiyama district can be accessed from multiple bus stops between the Gojozaka (10 minutes, 230 yen one way) and Gion (15 minutes, 230 yen) bus stops.

Alternatively, the district can be reached in a 10-15 minute walk from Kiyomizu-Gojo Station or Gion-Shijo Station along the Keihan Line, from Kyoto-Kawaramachi Station along the Hankyu Line or from Higashiyama Station along the Tozai Subway Line.

[How to get to and around Kyoto](e2363.html)


[Read our Kyoto Hotel Guide](/hotels/kyoto.html)