---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3937.html
title: Kokedera (Moss Temple)
description: Visitor guide for Kokedera, the moss temple, formally known as Saihoji in Kyoto.
keywords: kokedera, moss, garden, saihoji, kyoto, buddhism, sutra, temple
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3427
char_count: 23698
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:43:27
---

Saihoji (西芳寺, Saihōji), more commonly known as Kokedera (苔寺), is one of [Kyoto](e2158.html)'s [Unesco World Heritage Sites](e2251.html). Entrance to this [temple](e2058.html) requires an [advance reservation](#section_admission).

Kokedera means Moss Temple, referring to the temple garden's estimated 120 different varieties of moss. [Outside of winter](#winter), visitors to the temple can walk through this spectacular [garden](e2099.html), which has strongly influenced subsequent Japanese [garden design](e2099_types.html).

Kokedera was originally the site of [Prince Shotoku](e2131.html)'s villa before becoming a temple in the [Nara Period](e2132.html). In 1339, the temple was renovated and converted into a Zen temple under the priest Muso Soseki. Muso is also credited with creating Kokedera's gardens.

Copying the sutra

Kokedera offers the unique opportunity for visitors to participate in some of the [temple](e2058.html)'s religious activities. Every visitor to Kokedera is asked to contribute to the observances of kito and shakyo (respectively, the chanting and copying of Buddhist scriptures, called sutra).

After entering the gates, visitors should proceed directly to the temple to pay the entrance fee and begin the sutra copying. They will take a seat at one of the low writing desks. A monk leads the room in sutra chanting and then the copying begins. When ready, visitors can take their sutra paper up to the altar and exit. After the kito and shakyo, a stroll through the moss garden is not to be missed.

Completing the entire activity may take over an hour and [sitting](e2006.html) on the floor for this length of time can be uncomfortable. It should be stressed however, that copying out the sutra is not as challenging as it may first sound. A tracing of the Japanese characters guides even those with no previous knowledge of Japanese [calligraphy](e2095.html) or [Buddhism](e2055.html).

**During winter** (mid January to February), the garden is closed to tourists to allow it to rest and undergo maintenance work. Instead, visitors can tour the temple's main hall and see its many [fusuma sliding screens](e2007.html) which adorn paintings of 20th century painter Domoto Insho. Instead of copying a sutra, visitors can participate in [zazen meditation](e2424_zazen.html) during a winter visit.

Main hall

Kokedera is a 20 minute walk from Matsuo Taisha Station on the Hankyu Arashiyama Line.

### From Kyoto Station

Take the Karasuma Subway Line to Shijo Station (3 minutes) and transfer to the Hankyu Kyoto Line to Katsura Station (8 minutes). At Katsura Station, switch to the Hankyu Arashiyama Line which takes five minutes to Matsuo Taisha Station. In total, the trip takes about 30 minutes and costs 460 yen.

Alternatively, Kyoto Bus number 73 runs 1-3 times per hour from Kyoto Station via [Arashiyama](e3912.html) to Kokedera (1 hour, 230 yen one way, not covered by the 1-day bus pass). On busy days, this bus is likely to be delayed due to congestion in the Arashiyama area.

[How to get to and around Kyoto](e2363.html)