---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3207.html
title: Best Cherry blossom spots in Yokohama (Yokohama Hanami Spots)
description: A list of popular hanami (cherry blossom viewing) spots in Yokohama.
keywords: yokohama, sakura, cherry, blossom, blossoms, hanami, spot, spots
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1942
char_count: 13231
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:03:54
---

Below is a list of [Yokohama](e2156.html)'s most popular spots for cherry blossom viewing ([hanami](e2011.html)), including the typical timing for best viewing in the average year and japan-guide.com ratings. See also our nationwide list of [famous cherry blossom spots](e2011_where.html).

* 

  Mitsuike Park (Mitsuike Koen)•

  Early April

  Mitsuike Koen Kitamon bus stop (15-20 minutes by city bus #104 from Shin-Yokohama or Tsurumi stations). Admission: free

  Mitsuike Park is one of Japan's "100 best cherry blossom spots", the only found in [Yokohama](e2156.html). Like its name suggests, Mitsuike Park features three ponds, around which over a thousand cherry trees are planted.
* 

  [Sankeien Garden•](e3205.html)

  Early April

  10-25 min bus ride from Negishi or Sakuragicho Stations  
  9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30), 900 yen

  [Sankeien](e3205.html) is a Japanese landscape [garden](e2099.html) with a central pond, various historical buildings moved there from across the country, and several hundred cherry trees.
* 

  Negishi Forest Park (Negishi Shinrin Koen)•

  Early April

  Asahidai bus stop (5 minutes by city bus #21 from Negishi Station).  
  Admission: free

  A former horse race track and golf course, Negishi Forest Park is now one of [Yokohama](e2156.html)'s most pleasant cherry blossom spots, featuring wide lawns and a forest with a considerable number of cherry trees.
* 

  Mitsuzawa Park (Mitsuzawa Koen)

  Early April

  10 minute walk from Mitsuzawa-Kamicho Subway Station  
  Admission: free

  Mitsuzawa Park is home to various sports facilities, including a soccer stadium and many tennis courts. Cherry trees can be found all across the park with the highest concentration around Sakurayama ("cherry blossom mountain") in the park's northwestern corner.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

[How to get to and around Yokohama](e2360.html)