---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3558.html
title: Arima Onsen (Arima Hot Spring)
description: Travel guide for Arima Onsen, a celebrated hot spring resort town in the mountains outside central Kobe.
keywords: arima, onsen, hot, spring, springs, spa, kobe
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3047
char_count: 19535
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:49:15
---

Arima Onsen (有馬温泉) is a famous [hot spring](e2292.html) town within the city limits of [Kobe](e2159.html), but on the opposite side of [Mount Rokko](e3557.html) from the city center. The town lies in a natural mountain setting, yet is close enough for Kobe and [Osaka](e2157.html) residents as an easy day trip or weekend getaway.

Although Arima Onsen has a modern look today and is pretty built up, one can still find several narrow lanes and wooden buildings when strolling around the center of town. Due to its compact size, the small town can be explored entirely on foot, and there are several hot spring sources, nice [temples](e2058.html) and [shrines](e2059.html) and a small hot spring museum (200 yen) to be discovered.

With a history of over one thousand years, Arima Onsen is considered one of Japan's oldest [hot spring resorts](e2292_where.html) and has often stood at or near the top of onsen rankings for Western Japan. The town has two types of hot spring waters which spring up at various sources around town: the Kinsen ("gold water") is colored brown with iron deposits and is said to be good for skin ailments and muscle pain, while the clear Ginsen ("silver water") contains radium and carbonate and is said to cure various muscle and joint ailments.

Visitors to Arima Onsen can enjoy [hot spring bathing](e2292.html) at two [public bath houses](e2074.html) or at the town's many [ryokan](e2029.html). Several ryokan open their baths also to non-staying visitors during the day. The admission fee for a daytrip visit to a bath typically ranges between 550 and 3000 yen.

Hot spring source

Below is a list of some hot spring baths around Arima Onsen open to day trip visitors:

* 

  Kin no Yu

  Hours: 8:00 to 22:00 (entry until 21:30)  
  Closed: 2nd and 4th Tues each month (or Wed if Tues is a [holiday](e2062.html)), Jan 1  
  Admission: 800 yen (600 yen on regular weekdays)  
  Combination ticket for Kin no yu and Gin no yu: 1200 yen

  Located at the center of town, Kin no Yu is the larger of Arima Onsen's two [public bath houses](e2074.html). It features two indoor "gold" water baths of varying temperatures for each gender. Outside the bath house there are a free foot bath (ashiyu) and a drinking fountain.
* 

  Gin no Yu

  Hours: 9:00 to 21:00 (entry until 20:30)  
  Closed: 1st and 3rd Tues each month (or Wed if Tues is a [holiday](e2062.html)), Jan 1  
  Admission: 700 yen (550 yen on regular weekdays)  
  Combination ticket for Kin no yu and Gin no yu: 1200 yen

  Gin no Yu stands further back in the town, and is the smaller of Arima's two [public bath houses](e2074.html). It has one large indoor bath for each gender, featuring the clear, "silver" water.
* 

  Taiko no Yu•

  Hours: 10:00 to 22:00 (entry until 21:00)  
  Closed: Small number of irregular closing days  
  Admission: 2750 yen (2970 yen on weekends and [public holidays](e2062.html))

  Part of the Arima View Hotel, the Taiko no Yu is a large modern hot spring facility, featuring a wide variety of indoor and outdoor baths filled with both of Arima's waters. It includes a replica of a historic bath found at the onsen museum, large pots and saunas. In addition, there are massage services, restaurants, shops and rest areas.
* 

  Goshobo•

  Daytime hours: 11:00 to 14:00  
  Closed: Mondays (except [public holidays](e2062.html))  
  Daytime admission: 2250 yen  
  Overnight stay: from 40,000 yen per person including 2 meals

  Goshobo, one of Arima's oldest [ryokan](e2029.html), opens its baths to non-staying guests during daytime. Its main baths are atmospheric indoor stone pools for each gender, filled with Arima Onsen's famed "golden" hot spring water.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

### By train

From Sannomiya or Shin-Kobe Station, take the subway to Tanigami Station (10-15 minutes, 4-5 departures per hour). Then, take the Shintetsu Arima-Sanda Line to Arima-guchi and transfer to the Arima Line to Arima Onsen Station (20 minutes, 4 departures per hour). The entire journey takes 30-40 minutes and costs 720 yen from either Shin-Kobe or Sannomiya stations.

### By direct bus from Kobe

Some Shinki Bus express buses from Sannomiya Station bound for the Kobe Sanda Premium Outlets stop at Arima Onsen (bus stop 1 on the map) along the way (25 minutes, 600 yen one way). They also stop at Shin-Kobe (20 minutes, 600 yen to Arima Onsen). There is about one bus per hour (a little less frequent on weekends).

Alternatively, JR Bus operates about hourly [highway buses](e2366.html) from Shin-Kobe Station (50 minutes) via Sannomiya Station (30 minutes) to Arima Onsen (bus stop 2). The one way trip costs 780 yen. The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and other JR passes are not valid on any of these buses.

### By direct bus from Osaka

Hankyu Bus and JR Bus operate 1-2 highway buses per hour from Hankyu Umeda Station or JR Osaka Station (60 minutes, 1400 yen) via Shin-Osaka Station (50 minutes, 1250 yen) to Arima Onsen (the JR buses are currently out of service, but there is still about one bus per hour). In Arima, Hankyu Bus uses bus stop 1 on the map, while JR Bus uses bus stop 2. The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and other JR passes are not valid on either bus. Online reservations are possible through [Japan Bus Online](https://japanbusonline.com/CourseSearch/12700130011?afcd=MDI=&RosenNm=OsakaArima).

### By direct bus from Kyoto

Keihan and Hankyu operate a few highway buses per day between Kyoto Station (Hachijo side) and Arima Onsen (bus stop 2 on the map, 70 minutes, 1850 yen one way).

### By cablecar and ropeway via Mount Rokko

Take a train along the Hankyu Kobe Line from Sannomiya Station to Rokko Station (7 minutes, 200 yen), from where it is a ten minute, 230 yen bus ride by Kobe City Bus number 16 to the base station of the Rokko Cablecar.

The cablecar ride up the mountain takes ten minutes and costs 800 yen one way or 1550 yen for a round trip ticket. From the top station, take the circular bus line to the top station of the Rokko Arima Ropeway (ten minutes, 370 yen), which brings you down to Arima Onsen (12 minutes, 1400 yen one way, 2520 yen round trip).

If you access Arima Onsen via [Mount Rokko](e3557.html), you can save some money by using the "Rokko Arima Katamichi Joshaken" ticket, which includes a one way ride on the cablecar and ropeway plus unlimited use of the circular bus line on Mount Rokko for 1780 yen.

[How to get to and around Kobe](e3554.html)