---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3960.html
title: Jidai Matsuri (Jidai Festival)
description: Visitor guide for Kyoto's Jidai Matsuri, a festival during which about 2000 people march in a parade dressed like people and historical figures from thoughout Japanese history.
keywords: jidai, matsuri, festival, kyoto, ages, parade, history, period, epoch, costume
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3685
char_count: 25536
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:43:37
---

The Jidai Matsuri (時代祭) is a [festival](e2063.html) held every year on October 22, the anniversary of the foundation of [Kyoto](e2158.html). It consists of a large parade that travels from the [Imperial Palace](e3917.html) to [Heian Shrine](e3904.html). Jidai Matsuri is [Japanese](e621.html) for "Festival of Ages", and the participants are dressed in accurate costumes from almost every period of [Japanese history](e641.html), as well as famous historical figures. There are about 2000 participants, and it takes two hours to watch the entire procession pass by.

The Jidai Matsuri is held by [Heian Shrine](e3904.html), and both the festival and the shrine were established in 1895 to celebrate Kyoto's history and culture. A few years before in [1868](e2130.html), the capital was moved to [Tokyo](e2164.html) after having been in Kyoto for over a thousand years. Despite its short history, the Jidai Matsuri is one of Kyoto's three most famous festivals, along with the [Gion Matsuri](e3942.html) in July and the [Aoi Matsuri](e3948.html) in May.

The festival's honorary commissioners, including Kyoto's prefectural governor, city mayor and city council chairman

The historical costumes and characters that are displayed in the parade cover the approximately 1100 years during which Kyoto was the national capital. The procession is separated into [historical eras](e641.html) and then further separated into themes, of which there are about twenty. The parade begins with characters from the [Meiji Restoration](e2130.html) in 1868, and then continues in reverse chronological order until the beginning of the [Heian Period](e2132.html) (794-1185).

At the very head of the parade there are the festival's honorary commissioners, riding in horse drawn carriages in the style of the mid 1800s. The commissioners include figures like the governor of [Kyoto Prefecture](/list/e1226.html), the mayor of [Kyoto City](e2158.html) and the city council chairman. Following them are figures of the Meiji Restoration. There is a marching band with drums and flutes and soldiers who would have fought with the imperial forces, as well as some of the era's most notable figures, such as [Sakamoto Ryoma](e5602.html).

A marching band of the Meiji Restoration

The largest group in the parade depicts the extravagant convoys sent by the shogun to represent him at important imperial ceremonies in Kyoto during the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868). The three most important officials ride on horseback, and there is also a palanquin carried by attendants that the officials would use when traveling. Afterwards there is a much smaller group that consists of about a half dozen famous women from the period, including a princess sitting on a wheeled platform.

As the parade continues, spectators are able to see the armor of [Oda Nobunaga](e2123.html) and his commanders, the dress of warriors and common people of the [Muromachi Period](e2134.html) (1338-1573), more famous historical women and nobles of the [Heian Period](e2132.html) (794-1185). The costumes and characters of the military, cultural, aristocratic and common people are all put on display.

Women bearing flowers follow the mikoshi

The parade's last group is the most important in terms of [Shinto](e2056.html) rituals. A large number of attendants accompany and carry two mikoshi (portable shrines) that contain the spirits of Emperor Kammu and Emperor Komei, respectively the first and last [emperors](e2135.html) to reign from Kyoto. Heian Shrine is dedicated to the spirits of the two emperors, who normally reside in the shrine. However, during the Jidai Matsuri they are able to travel through the city in the mikoshi.

The entire route of the parade stretches about five kilometers. Crowds become most dense at the [Imperial Palace](e3917.html) and on the approach to [Heian Shrine](e3904.html), where spectators want to arrive early to get a good spot. In addition to the regular, free viewing areas lining the parade route, there are also sections of paid, reserved seats at the shrine, the palace and on the streets. Details on the reserved seats are [explained below](#section_admission).

The marching band of the Meiji Restoration reaches Heian Shrine

The procession departs from the [Imperial Palace](e3917.html), travels along Oike Street and Sanjo Street, and finally terminates at [Heian Shrine](e3904.html):

[How to get to and around Kyoto](e2363.html)