---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3011.html
title: Shinjuku
description: Visitor guide for the Shinjuku district in central Tokyo.
keywords: shinjuku, tokyo, japan
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3899
char_count: 27489
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:58:14
---

Shinjuku (新宿) is one of the 23 city wards of [Tokyo](e2164.html), but the name commonly refers to just the large entertainment, business and shopping area around Shinjuku Station.

Shinjuku Station is the world's busiest [railway](e2019.html) station, handling more than two million passengers every day. It is served by about a dozen railway and subway lines, including the [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html). Shinjuku is also one of Tokyo's major stops for long-distance [highway buses](e2366.html). A large bus terminal, named [Busta Shinjuku](/blog/schauwecker/160409.html), is conveniently located on top of the railway station.

West of the station is Shinjuku's [skyscraper district](#skyscraper), home to some of [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s tallest buildings, including several premier hotels and the twin towers of the [Metropolitan Government Office](#tocho), whose observation decks are open to the public for free. However, the station's west exit is currenty also a site of redevelopment with an impact on the flow of pedestrian traffic. A new station building with a 260 meter tall skyscraper is planned for completion in 2029 or 2030.

Northeast of the station lies [Kabukicho](#kabukicho), Japan's largest and wildest red light district, while department stores, subterranean malls and electronic shops surround Shinjuku Station on all four sides, including the redeveloped Southern Terrace.

### Districts

* 

  Shinjuku Skyscraper District

  Restaurants: Hours vary but are typically from 11:00 to 22:00. Some restaurants close for a few hours between lunch and dinner.

  The area west of Shinjuku Station is home to a large number of skyscrapers including the [Tokyo Metropolitan Government Building](#tocho) and leading hotels such as the [Keio Plaza](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/keio-plaza-tokyo.html?aid=355588), [Hilton](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/hilton-tokyo.html?aid=355588), [Hyatt Regency](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/hyatt-regency-tokyo.html?aid=355588) and [Park Hyatt](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/park-hyatt-tokyo.html?aid=355588) (featured in [Lost in Translation](/news/0003.html)). Several of the skyscrapers have shops and restaurants on their ground floors and additional restaurants with great views of the city on their top floors.
* 

  Kabukicho

  Restaurants: Typically 11:00 to 24:00 (some open 24 hours)  
  Bars: Typically from 19:00 or 20:00 until the next morning  
  Closed: Some establishments are closed on Sundays

  Named after a [kabuki](e2090.html) theater, whose construction plans have never been realized, Japan's largest red light district features countless restaurants, bars, nightclubs, [pachinko](e2065.html) parlors, [love hotels](e2031.html) and a wide variety of red light establishments for all sexes and sexual orientations. Explore with caution and beware of exorbitant cover fees and drink spiking resulting in loss of cash and credit cards. The latter typically occurs at establishments run by non-Japanese patrons and is initiated by touts targeting foreign tourists.
* 

  Golden Gai

  Hours: Typically from 19:00 or 20:00 until the next morning  
  Closed: Typically Sundays

  Golden Gai is a small, atmospheric nightlife district in Kabukicho packed with over 200 small bars and eateries. Most places are very small, seating only a few customers, and typically cater to a few regular customers. A few of the bars openly welcome foreign guests with signs and menus set outside listing prices in English.
* 

  Omoide Yokocho

  Restaurants: Typically from 17:00 to 24:00 (some are open for lunch)  
  Closed: Irregular closing days

  Omoide Yokocho (lit. memory lane), also known under its more colorful nickname Piss Alley, is a small network of alleyways along the tracks northwest of Shinjuku Station. The narrow lanes are filled with dozens of tiny eateries serving [ramen](e2042.html), [soba](e2341.html), [sushi](e2038.html), [yakitori](/r/e102.html) and kushiyaki. Many restaurants consist of just one counter with some chairs, while others have a couple of tables.
* 

  Shin-Okubo Koreatown

  Shop and restaurant hours vary

  Shin-Okubo Koreatown is a collection of Korean shops and restaurants found along the main road and side streets around Shin-Okubo Station, one stop north of Shinjuku. Many of the shops and restaurants are operated by Korean residents and sell a variety of Korean goods, including K-Pop music, videos and groceries.

### Attractions and parks

* 

  [Tokyo Metropolitan Government Office](e3011_tocho.html)

  Hours: 9:30 to 22:00 (entry until 21:30)  
  Closed: Dec 29 to Jan 3 (except Jan 1) and occasional inspection days  
  Admission: Free

  The 243 meter tall [twin towers](e3011_tocho.html) and surrounding buildings contain the offices and the assembly hall of the metropolitan government of [Tokyo](e2164.html), as well as observatories on the 45th floor of each tower. We consider the view from the southern tower slightly more interesting. Huge, free projection mapping shows are held on the towers every 30 minutes in the evenings.
* 

  [Shinjuku Gyoen](e3034_001.html)

  Hours: 9:00 to 18:00 (until 16:30 in winter, until 19:00 in summer)  
  Closed: Mondays (or next day if Mon is a [holiday](e2062.html)), and Dec 29 to Jan 3. No closing days from late Mar to late Apr and in the first half of Nov.  
  Admission: 500 yen

  [Shinjuku Gyoen](e3034_001.html) is one of Tokyo's largest and most pleasant [parks](e3034.html) and one of the [city's best cherry blossom viewing spots](e3050.html). It was opened to the public in 1949, after it had served as a garden for the [Imperial Family](e2135.html) since 1903.
* 

  Shinjuku Central Park

  Hours: Always open  
  Admission: Free

  This public park behind the [Tokyo Metropolitan Government twin towers](#tocho) houses Kumano [Shrine](e2059.html). It used to have a sizable homeless population living in blue tarp shanties and cardboard box homes.

### Department stores

* 

  Isetan

  Hours: 10:00 to 20:00  
  Restaurants: Typically 11:00 to 22:00

  With a history of over 100 years Isetan is a veteran among Shinjuku's [department stores](e2072.html). The Shinjuku store is Isetan's flagship and consists of ten floors, including restaurants on the top floors and a food department in the basement.
* 

  Takashimaya

  Hours: 10:30 to 19:30  
  Restaurants: 11:00 to 23:00

  Opened in 1996, the Shinjuku branch of Takashimaya consists of 15 floors, including a food department in the basement and three restaurant floors. It is the main store of the "Takashimaya Times Square" complex that also houses a Hands branch and Kinokuniya book store with a large foreign language section..
* 

  Keio

  Hours: 10:00 to 20:00  
  Restaurants: 11:00 to 22:00

  Keio Department Store consists of 11 floors, including a food department in the basement and several restaurants on the restaurant floor. The department store belongs to the Keio Group, which also operates a suburban [railway](e2019.html) line from Shinjuku to western Tokyo. The Keio department store is scheduled to be rebuilt in a major redevelopment project in the near future.
* 

  Lumine

  Hours: 11:00 to 21:00  
  Restaurants: 11:00 to 22:30

  Lumine is owned by [JR East](e2019.html) and located both next to and above Shinjuku Station's South and East exits. Lumine is divided into "Lumine 1" and "Lumine 2" on either side of the South Exit and "Lumine Est" (formerly known as "My City") above the East Exit.

### Electronics stores

* 

  Yodobashi Camera

  Hours: 9:30 to 22:00

  Yodobashi Camera is one of Japan's leading discount electronics retailers, and especially strong on camera equipment. Yodobashi's main store is located near the west exit of Shinjuku Station, while a smaller branch is located near the station's east exit.
* 

  Bic Camera

  Hours: typically 10:00 to 20:00

  Bic Camera is another of Japan's leading discount electronics retailers. It has two large stores in Shinjuku: one in the Odakyu Halc Building near the station's west exit and one east of the station near the Isetan department store.

Shinjuku Station is Japan's busiest [railway](e2019.html) station, served by about a dozen railway lines, including the [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html).

### From Tokyo Station

The frequently departing, orange trains on the [JR Chuo Line](e2372.html) (Rapid Service) take less than 15 minutes and cost 210 yen from [Tokyo Station](e3037.html) to Shinjuku Station.

### From Ueno Station

By [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html) it takes 25 minutes and costs 210 yen to get from Ueno to Shinjuku. A slightly faster alternative is to take the JR Yamanote or [JR Keihin-Tohoku](e2371.html) Line from Ueno to Kanda Station, and then the [JR Chuo Line](e2372.html) from Kanda to Shinjuku.

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)