---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3800.html
title: Nikko Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for the city of Nikko, Japan.
keywords: nikko, guide, travel, tourism, sightseeing, tourist, visitor, information
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1875
char_count: 13782
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:41:17
---

Nikko (日光, Nikkō) is a town at the entrance to Nikko National Park, most famous for [Toshogu](e3801.html), Japan's most lavishly decorated [shrine](e2059.html) and the mausoleum of [Tokugawa Ieyasu](e2128.html), the founder of the Tokugawa shogunate.

Nikko had been a center of [Shinto](e2056.html) and [Buddhist](e2055.html) mountain worship for many centuries before Toshogu was built in the 1600s, and Nikko National Park continues to offer scenic, mountainous landscapes, lakes, waterfalls, [hot springs](e2292.html), wild monkeys and hiking trails.

Nikko and the [Okunikko](e3818.html) area around [Lake Chuzenji](e3806.html), in particular, are well known for their beautiful [autumn colors](e2014.html) (koyo). In the average year the colors start descending from the higher elevations of [Yumoto Onsen](e3807.html) in early October, are best around [Lake Chuzenji](e3806.html) and the Irohazaka road in mid to late October and reach the town of Nikko in the first half of November.

Nikko is located along Japan's [Romantic Road](e7450.html).

Central Nikko (Town)

* [](/e/e3801.html)

  1

  Shrine

  [Toshogu Shrine•••](/e/e3801.html)

  Lavish mausoleum of Tokugawa Ieyasu.

  4.4

  

  1,815
* [](/e/e3802.html)

  2

  Temple

  [Taiyuin•](/e/e3802.html)

  Mausoleum of Iemitsu, Ieyasu's grandson.

  4.2

  

  571
* [](/e/e3803.html)

  3

  Temple

  [Rinnoji Temple•](/e/e3803.html)

  Nikko's most important temple.

  3.9

  

  1,135
* [](/e/e3808.html)

  4

  Historic Site

  [Tamozawa Villa•](/e/e3808.html)

  Former Nikko residence of the Imperial Family.

  3.7

  

  165
* [](/e/e3810.html)

  5

  Nature

  [Kanmangafuchi Abyss](/e/e3810.html)

  Atmospheric walking trail through a gorge.

  4.1

  

  241
* [](/e/e3804.html)

  6

  Shrine

  [Futarasan Shrine](/e/e3804.html)

  Dedicated to Nikko's sacred mountains.

  4.0

  

  983
* [](/e/e3821.html)

  7

  Nature

  [Kirifuri Waterfall](/e/e3821.html)

  Beautiful waterfall in the forested mountains.

  3.8

  

  28
* [](/e/e3809.html)

  8

  Garden

  [Botanical Garden](/e/e3809.html)

  Research garden of the University of Tokyo.

  3.7

  

  188
* [](/e/e3814.html)

  9

  Shrine

  [Shinkyo Bridge](/e/e3814.html)

  Sacred bridge at the entrance to Nikko's shrines.

  3.4

  

  946
* [](/e/e3823.html)

  10

  Historic Site

  [Kanaya Hotel History House](/e/e3823.html)

  The predecessor of the Kanaya Hotel.

  11

Okunikko

* [](/e/e3815.html)

  1

  Viewpoint/Tower

  [Hangetsuyama•](/e/e3815.html)

  Mountain with great views over Lake Chuzenji.

  3.8

  

  48
* [](/e/e3806.html)

  2

  Nature

  [Lake Chuzenji•](/e/e3806.html)

  Lake at the foot of Mount Nantai.

  3.8

  

  983
* [](/e/e3811.html)

  3

  Nature

  [Senjogahara Marsh•](/e/e3811.html)

  Idyllic marshland with nice hiking trails.

  3.8

  

  306
* [](/e/e3813.html)

  4

  Nature

  [Ryuzu Waterfall](/e/e3813.html)

  Waterfall famous for its autumn colors.

  3.9

  

  468
* [](/e/e3812.html)

  5

  Nature

  [Kegon Waterfall](/e/e3812.html)

  Nikko's most famous waterfall.

  3.9

  

  875
* [](/e/e3819.html)

  6

  Viewpoint/Tower

  [Akechidaira Plateau](/e/e3819.html)

  Observation decks along the Irohazaka road.

  3.8

  

  80
* [](/e/e3807.html)

  7

  Onsen

  [Yumoto Onsen](/e/e3807.html)

  Hot spring resort in the national park.

  3.8

  

  333
* [](/e/e3820.html)

  8

  Temple

  [Chuzenji Temple](/e/e3820.html)

  Temple at the shores of Lake Chuzenjiko.

  3.7

  

  215
* [](/e/e3816.html)

  9

  Scenic Ride

  [Irohazaka](/e/e3816.html)

  Road connecting the town with Okunikko.

  3.4

  

  203

Nearby Attractions

* [](/e/e3840.html)

  1

  [Nasu-Shiobara](/e/e3840.html)

  Resort area with hiking trails and hot springs.

  3.2

  

  227
* [](/e/e3875.html)

  2

  [Kinugawa Onsen](/e/e3875.html)

  Hot spring resort with theme parks near Nikko.

  3.2

  

  545
* [](/e/e3860.html)

  3

  [Utsunomiya](/e/e3860.html)

  Prefectural capital of Tochigi Prefecture.

  2.8

  

  82

[

Nikko Autumn Color Spots](/e/e3817.html)

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Nikko](/e/e3800.html)

[Getting to and around Nikko](/e/e3805.html)
[See access info](/e/e3805.html)

Getting In:

[Nikko Pass](/e/e2358_002.html)

[

1 Day

Cultural Highlights

Nikko Full Day Walk

* Iconic **Shinkyo Bridge**
* World-famous **temples** and **shrines**
* Tour an **imperial villa**

View itinerary](e3822_nikko_town_full.html)
[

1 Day

Scenic Trail

Okunikko Full Day Hike

* Three beautiful **waterfalls**
* Hike through a **marshland**
* Picturesque **Lake Yunoko**

View itinerary](e3822_okunikko_full.html)