---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3078.html
title: Public Baths in Tokyo
description: A list of public baths in Tokyo.
keywords: tokyo, public, baths, bath, sento, onsen, ofuro
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3234
char_count: 22797
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:57:45
---

[Tokyo](e2164.html) used to have at least one [public bath](e2074.html) (sento) in each of its neighborhoods, but their number has greatly dropped in past decades. Recently, the popularity of sento has increased a little, with the larger baths offering entertainment, dining and relaxation under one roof, and the smaller, nostalgia-imbued ones allowing bathers to be brought back to the good old days.

Tokyo is not a place where [onsen](e2292.html) water surfaces naturally, but thanks to [modern drilling and pumping technologies](e2292_water.html), it is now possible to get access to naturally heated water virtually anywhere if you bore deep enough. As a result, several larger bath complexes featuring hot spring water have appeared across central Tokyo.

### Large bath complexes

* 

  LaQua

  In [Tokyo Dome City](e3039.html) (near Korakuen, Kasuga and Suidobashi stations)  
  Hours: 11:00am to 9:00am the next morning  
  Closed: A small number of irregular closing days  
  Admission: 3230 yen (extra fee on weekends, holidays and after 1am)

  Opened in 2003, LaQua is a popular relaxation oasis not far from [Tokyo Dome](e3039.html) in the center of busy [Tokyo](e2164.html). It features real [hot spring](e2292.html) pools, saunas, relaxation space and various massage and beauty services. The hot spring water is brought to the surface from a depth of more than one kilometer.
* 

  Niwa no Yu

  Short walk from Toshimaen Station  
  Hours: 10:00 to 23:00 (entry until 22:00)  
  Closed: A small number of irregular closing days for maintenance  
  Admission: 2520 yen (weekdays), 2970 yen (weekends), 3070 yen (special days), 1750-2200 yen (after 6pm)

  Niwa no Yu is a [hot spring](e2292.html) bath complex a short walk from Toshimaen Station in northwest [Tokyo](e2164.html). The oasis in the city features a large Japanese garden, a variety of hot spring pools, a sizable indoor pool, saunas, relaxation and massage areas, as well as dining options. The natural hot spring water is pumped up from a depth of over 1400 meters underground.

### Small bath houses

* 

  Oshiage Daikoku-yu

  5 minute walk from Oshiage Station (exit B2)  
  Hours: 15:00 to 10:00am next day (from 14:00 on Sat, from 13:00 on Sun)  
  Closed: Tuesdays  
  Admission: 520 yen

  Established in 1949, Oshiage Daikoku-yu is an atmospheric, gender-separated [sento](e2074.html) in a neighborhood not far from the [Tokyo Skytree](e3064.html). The public bathhouse has outdoor baths albeit with high walls. The classic interior has wooden flooring in the changing area and a tiled mural in the bath area. Chilled drinks and icy poles are sold in the small lounge area outside. Large and small towels are available for rent, and simple amenity kits can be purchased at the counter. Communal body soap and shampoo are not provided.
* 

  Atami-yu

  Short walk from JR Iidabashi Station (west exit)  
  Hours: 14:45 to 1:00am  
  Closed: Saturdays  
  Admission: 520 yen

  Located in the picturesque backstreets of [Kagurazaka](e3071.html), Atami-yu is a [sento](e2074.html) where the waters are heated by burning wood since the public bath opened in 1954. Both the exterior and interior feature classic, almost vintage, decorations creating a time slip to the past once you step past the threshold. Large and small towels are available for rent; however, amenity kits, soap and shampoo are not provided.
* 

  Minami Aoyama Shimizu-yu

  Access: Short walk from Omotesando Station (exit A3)  
  Hours: 12:00 to 24:00 (until 23:00 on weekends and [national holidays](e2062.html))  
  Closed: Fridays  
  Admission: 520 yen

  Shimizu-yu in Minami Aoyama can be found in a quiet lane off the main road in the upmarket Omotesando-Aoyama district. The modern public bathhouse is located on street level under an apartment building with a small coin laundromat beside. There are a number of baths and also background music to create a relaxing atmosphere. Large and small towels are available for rent, and simple amenity kits can be purchased at the counter. Communal body soap and shampoo are not provided.