---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3351.html
title: Inuyama Castle
description: Visitor guide for Inuyama Castle, one of the oldest surviving Japanese feudal castles.
keywords: inuyama, castle, inuyamajo
content_type: attraction
word_count: 367
char_count: 2574
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:51:00
---

Inuyama Castle (犬山城, Inuyamajō) was initially constructed in 1537, and its donjon is one of Japan's oldest extant. It is one of only twelve "original castles" left in Japan, i.e. a [castle](e2296.html) whose main keep has survived the post-[feudal age](e2128.html) since 1868 intact. Inuyama Castle is also one of only five castles whose main keeps have been designated as national treasures. The other four are [Himeji Castle](e3501.html), [Matsumoto Castle](e6051.html), [Hikone Castle](e7001.html) and [Matsue Castle](e5801.html).

The [castle](e2296.html) stands on top of a small hill next to Kiso River. The main keep's structure is built almost entirely with wood and rocks, and its interior is beautifully preserved and retains an authentic feel without modern additions that reconstructed castles often include.

A conserved feature are the steep stairs, which visitors can scale up four stories to get to the top level and be rewarded with panoramic views over the castle grounds and Kiso River. It is also interesting to view the various chambers in the keep, including a lookout that was used to watch for approaching enemies and a room with holes that stones could be thrown down during times of enemy invasion.

Overlooking the Kiso River from the top story of the castle's main keep

The castle can be reached in a 15-20 minute walk from either Inuyama Station or Inuyama-Yuen Station, the latter being a little bit closer. Both stations are served by Meitetsu Railway.

[How to get to and around Inuyama](e3354.html)