---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3432.html
title: Tomonoura
description: Visitor guide for Tomonoura, a picturesque port town at the southern end of Fukuyama City.
keywords: tomonoura, port, town, hiroshima, fukuyama, japan, tourist, information, guide, travel, sightseeing
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1089
char_count: 7355
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:02:57
---

Tomonoura (鞆の浦) is a port town at the southern end of [Fukuyama City](e3430.html), [Hiroshima Prefecture](/list/e1238.html). Situated at a bay facing the [Seto Inland Sea](e5445.html), the picturesque port town features an endearing old-fashioned fishing townscape, with a calm and laid-back atmosphere. Tomonoura is part of the [Setonaikai National Park](e2325.html).

Tomonoura prospered in the olden days of sail boats, when merchant ships traveling along the Seto Inland Sea would dock at its port while waiting for a favorable tide. The town center flourished with the bustling sea activity, leading to thriving industries such as the production of "homeishu", a medicinal liquor of [shochu](e2037.html) and 16 types of herbs, said to promote longevity.

In recent years, Tomonoura has been picked as a filming location for several international and local movies, such as "The Wolverine" starring Hugh Jackman and "Ponyo on the Cliff" by the popular [Studio Ghibli](e3041.html). The port town portrayed in the beginning of "Ponyo on the Cliff" was modeled after Tomonoura.

### Old town center

The old town center of Tomonoura has many photogenic alleys lined by rustic old houses with wooden facades. There are a few shops selling homeishu, the local medicinal liquor. The bayfront area is littered with small boats, demonstrating the port's continuing relevancy. Here are some attractions around the town center:

* 

  Joyato Lighthouse

  The symbol of Tomonoura, the Joyato Lighthouse was built during the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868). The eleven meter tall structure stands prominently at the waterfront directly south of the town center.
* 

  Ota Residence

  Hours: 10:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Tuesdays (or next day if Tues is a [holiday](e2062.html)), Dec 29 to Jan 3  
  Admission: 500 yen

  The spacious Ota Residence belonged to a family who started brewing homeishu in the late 17th century. From 1710 to the onset of the [Meiji Period](e2130.html), the family flourished as it was granted the monopoly over homeishu production. The residence was later sold when business took a downturn, but its new owner preserved many features of the buildings. Today, visitors can view the residence's multiple [tatami mat](e2007.html) rooms, [tea](e2041.html) rooms and homeishu storehouses.
* 

  Irohamaru Museum

  Hours: 10:00 to 16:30  
  Closed: Mondays to Thursdays, December 28 to January 1  
  Admission: 300 yen

  Irohamaru was the name of a merchant ship that sank in 1867, prominent because the important historical figure [Sakamoto Ryoma](e5602.html) was on board at the time. More than a hundred years later, residents from Tomonoura discovered the wreckage and retrieved artifacts and parts of the ship, which are exhibited at the Irohamaru Museum today. The museum also informs about Ryoma and relating stories about him but unfortunately lacks explanations in English.
* 

  Museum of History and Folklore

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Mondays (or next day if Mon is a [holiday](e2062.html)), Dec 28 to Jan 3  
  Admission: 150 yen

  The Tomonoura Museum of History and Folklore provides information about the industries of Tomonoura and historical events that took place at the town. It displays exhibits relating to the daily life of the local people, such as [festival](e2063.html) floats, models of merchant ships and artifacts of the former Tomo Castle. The museum is only somewhat interesting with little English information.
* 

  Pier

  A stroll along the bay is refreshing with good views of the town and the sea. At the eastern corner of the bay there is a long pier that offer nice views of the town and coastal scenery.

### Temples and shrines

A wealth of [temples](e2058.html) and [shrines](e2059.html) surround the town center, remaining today both as reminders of Tomonoura's heritage and as local attractions. Some of the town's best views can be seen at some of these places of worship:

* 

  Fukuzenji Temple

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (from 8:00 on weekends and [public holidays](e2062.html))  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 300 yen

  Fukuzenji Temple offers the most famous view at Tomonoura: nearby Bentenjima and Sensuijima islands through the [temple](e2058.html)'s veranda. As a side note, the temple also houses a statue of Maria Kannon, Virgin Mary made to look like the [Buddhist](e2055.html) Bodhisattva Kannon during the [Edo Period](e2128.html), when [Christianity](e2298.html) was banned in Japan and Christians had to practice their [religion](e629.html) in secret.
* 

  Enpukuji Temple

  Hours: Always open  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free

  Enpukuji Temple was relatively recently constructed around 1600 on the hilltop location of a former castle. The castle served as a base for the Southern Court forces during the [struggle for power between the two imperial courts](e2134.html) in the 14th century.
* 

  Ioji Temple

  Hours: Always open  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free

  Nostalgic stone and earthen walls with tiled roofs guard the [temple](e2058.html) grounds of Ioji, from where good views of the bay area of Tomonoura can be seen. A 15 minute ascent up the hill behind the main temple building leads to the Taishiden hall, from where even better views looking onto the bay can be enjoyed.
* 

  Nunakuma Shrine

  Hours: Always open  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free

  Nunakuma Shrine consists of two shrines which are respectively dedicated to deities of the sea; marine safety was obviously very important to Tomonoura's success as a port town. Nunakuma Shrine features an old [noh](e2091.html) stage.
* 

  Ankokuji Temple

  Hours: 8:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 150 yen

  Ankokuji Temple was founded during the [Kamakura Period](e2133.html) (1192-1333). It houses a couple of designated national treasures and important works, such as a wooden statue of Amida Buddha and a stone statue of a sitting Jizo Bodhisattva. The temple compound sports an interesting selection of tropical plants.

### How to get to Tomonoura

Tomonoura is best accessed from Fukuyama Station by [buses](e2015.html) that run every 20-30 minutes. There are no English signs, so look out for buses bound for Tomo Port (鞆港, Tomokō) at bus stop number 5 just in front of the station exit. It takes about 30 minutes and costs 580 yen to get to the Tomonoura (鞆の浦) bus stop next to the visitor center, and 35 minutes and 620 yen to get to the Tomo Port bus stop where buses turn around and make the return trip. Besides cash, [IC cards](e2359_003.html), including Suica, Pasmo, and Icoca, are accepted on these buses.

[How to get to and around Fukuyama](e3431.html)

### How to get around Tomonoura

The attractions of Tomonoura are within distances from the bus stops that can be comfortably covered on foot. [Rental bicycles](e2210.html) are an alternative. There is a rental outlet next to the terminal from where the ferries to Sensuijima Island depart. Bicycles cost 500 yen per day.