---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3001.html
title: Sensoji (Asakusa Kannon Temple)
description: Visitor guide for Sensoji Temple in Asakusa, Tokyo.
keywords: sensoji, asakusa, temple, kannon, tokyo, japan
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2819
char_count: 20137
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:01:11
---

Sensoji (浅草寺, Sensōji, also known as Asakusa Kannon Temple) is a Buddhist [temple](e2058.html) located in [Asakusa](e3004.html). It is one of [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s most colorful and popular temples.

The legend says that in the year [628](e2131.html), two brothers fished a statue of [Kannon](e2055.html), the goddess of mercy, out of the Sumida River, and even though they put the statue back into the river, it always returned to them. Consequently, Sensoji was built nearby for the goddess of Kannon. The [temple](e2058.html) was completed in 645, making it [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s oldest temple.

Main Hall

When approaching the temple, visitors first enter through the **Kaminarimon** (Thunder Gate), the outer gate of Sensoji Temple and the symbol of [Asakusa](e3004.html) and the entire city of [Tokyo](e2164.html).

A shopping street of over 200 meters, called **Nakamise**, leads from the outer gate to the temple's second gate, the Hozomon. Alongside typical Japanese souvenirs such as [yukata](e2103.html) and folding fans, various traditional local snacks from the [Asakusa](e3004.html) area are sold along the Nakamise. The shopping street has a history of several centuries.

View of the Nakamise from above

Beyond the Hozomon Gate stands the [temple](e2058.html)'s **main hall** and a five storied pagoda. Destroyed in the war, the buildings are relatively recent reconstructions. The **Asakusa Shrine**, built in the year 1649 by [Tokugawa Iemitsu](e2128.html), stands immediately adjacent to the temple's main building.

Various events are held throughout the year in the Sensoji Temple area. The biggest of them is the [Sanja Matsuri](e3063.html), the annual [festival](e2063.html) of the Asakusa Shrine, held in May. Other events are the Asakusa Samba Carnival in August and the Hagoita-ichi (Hagoita Market) at which decorated wooden paddles used in the traditional game of hanetsuki are sold.

Inside the main hall

Sensoji Temple is a few steps from Asakusa Station, served by the Ginza Subway Line, Asakusa Subway Line and Tobu Railway.

### From Tokyo Station

Take the [JR Yamanote Line](e2370.html) to Kanda Station (2 minutes, 150 yen) and transfer to the Ginza Subway Line for Asakusa (10 minutes, 180 yen).

### From Shinjuku Station

Take the orange [JR Chuo Line](e2372.html) to Kanda Station (10 minutes, 180 yen) and transfer to the Ginza Subway Line for Asakusa (10 minutes, 180 yen).

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)