---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3660.html
title: Fukenoyu Onsen
description: Visitor guide for Fukenoyu Onsen, a hot spring field with rustic, outdoor baths in Towada-Hachimantai National Park.
keywords: fukenoyu, fuke, no, yu, field, hot, spring, onsen, spa
content_type: attraction
word_count: 357
char_count: 2699
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:15:54
---

Fukenoyu Onsen (蒸ノ湯温泉) is a rustic [hot spring](e2292.html) in [Akita Prefecture](/list/e1203.html), just a few kilometers below the summit of [Mount Hachimantai](e3655.html) in [Towada-Hachimantai National Park](e3658.html). Like nearby [Goshogake Onsen](e3654.html), the slopes around Fukenoyu feature an interesting volcanic hot spring field where onsen waters bubble up directly out of the ground. These acidic waters are thick with mineral deposits (yunohana) and are said to be effective against neuralgia, infertility, gastrointestinal disorders, skin disease and fatigue among other ailments.

Fukenoyu features just a single, rustic [ryokan](e2029.html) that opens up its bathing facilities to non-staying guests during the daytime for 700 yen. While the baths inside the ryokan are fairly regular, the real treat at Fukenoyu are its outdoor baths (rotenburo) that were built in the midst of the hot spring field. The facilities include gender separated pools and a geothermal sauna. Note that while shielded from the trail, some of the pools are quite visible from the (distant) parking lot above. Fukenoyu is closed in winter (mid November to mid April).

Hot spring field at Fukenoyu Onsen

Fukenoyu Onsen is not accessible during the winter from mid November to mid April due to winter road closure. Infrequent [bus](e2015.html) service is provided only on selected days outside of winter and requires advance reservations.

[How to get to and around Hachimantai](e3652.html)