---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3602.html
title: Samurai District
description: Visitor guide for Kakunodate's beautifully preserved, former samurai district.
keywords: kakunodate, samurai, district
content_type: attraction
word_count: 693
char_count: 5153
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:24:19
---

The [Kakunodate](e3601.html) samurai district, which once housed about 80 families, is one of the best examples of [samurai](e2127.html) architecture and housing in the country. Its wide streets and large courtyards are shaded by dozens of weeping [cherry trees](e2011.html) which bloom in early May. During this time, the wide streets are busy with [hanami](e2011_how.html) tourists.

Of the [samurai](e2127.html) houses that remain intact, six are open to the public and offer visitors the chance to see how middle class and wealthy samurai families might have lived. Of the six open houses, the Aoyagi and Ishiguro houses are particularly noteworthy for their size and quality.

Former samurai mansion: Aoyagi-ke

The **Aoyagi House** (Aoyagi-ke) is an impressive complex with multiple buildings containing museum collections, restaurants and gift shops. The displays provide interesting information in both English and [Japanese](e621.html) on samurai traditions, lifestyle and the historical context in relation to [Kakunodate](e3601.html). It is a useful place to visit for those interested in Kakunodate's samurai history.

The second samurai home of special note is the **Ishiguro House** (Ishiguro-ke). The area open to visitors is much smaller than that of the Aoyagi House, largely because the family still resides in the rest of the house. On display is a small collection of samurai armor and clothing, as well as anatomical drawings and studies. The Ishiguro House also has a well preserved storeroom.

The Ishiguro Residence storeroom

The other four open houses offer varying levels of accessibility. They are mostly examples of middle class [samurai](e2127.html) residences and thus, are smaller than the Aoyagi-ke and Ishiguro-ke. There are also two museums that may be of interest to visitors:

* 

  Kawarada Samurai House

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (until 16:30 from December to March)  
  Admission: 500 yen  
  Closed: December 28 to January 4

  The Kawarada House served as the residence of a senior vassal. The current building dates to 1891 and allows for views into the garden.
* 

  Odano Samurai House

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00  
  Admission: Free  
  Closed: December to mid April

  Odano House has an open [garden](e2099.html), however, it is not possible to enter the buildings. The sliding doors are left open in good weather so that visitors can look inside and admire the [tatami](e2007.html) rooms and painted doors.
* 

  Iwahashi Samurai House

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00  
  Admission: Free  
  Closed: December to mid April

  The Iwahashi House is another example of a middle-class samurai home. It is smaller and simpler in design and style. It can only be viewed from the outside.
* 

  Matsumoto Samurai House

  Hours: 9:00 to 16:00  
  Admission: Free  
  Closed: early November to mid April

  The Matsumoto House dates back to the [Edo Period](e2128.html). Like the other free admission houses, visitors cannot enter the building, but can view the interior from the outside.
* 

  Omura Art Museum

  Hours: 10:00 to 17:00 (until 16:00 from December to March)  
  Admission: 800 yen  
  Closed Thursdays (and Wednesdays from December to March)

  This one-room museum shows a rotating selection of glasswork pieces from a private collection. Works by the French artist, Rene Lalique, are the prominent feature of this collection.
* 

  Denshokan Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (until 16:30 from December to March)  
  Admission: 500 yen  
  Closed: December 28 to January 4

  Denshokan Museum displays [Kakunodate](e3601.html)'s history and traditional craft making. Kakunodate most prominent craft is cherry bark woodworking (kabazaiku), which is used to make tea canisters, dishes and large pieces of furniture.

[Kakunodate](e3601.html)'s former samurai district is a 20 minute walk or a short [taxi](e2021.html) ride from JR Kakunodate Station. The district begins at the Yoko-machi intersection.

[How to get to and around Kakunodate](e3603.html)