---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3039.html
title: Tokyo Dome City
description: Visitor guide for Tokyo Dome City, an entertainment complex in central Tokyo.
keywords: tokyo, dome, city, laqua, la qua
content_type: attraction
word_count: 3025
char_count: 21365
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:00:04
---

Tokyo Dome City is a leisure complex in central [Tokyo](e2164.html) consisting of the [Tokyo Dome](#dome) baseball stadium, an [amusement park](#attraction), a [spa](#laqua), a variety of shops and restaurants, and [Tokyo Dome Hotel](#hotel). The complex used to be known as Korakuen, named after the former baseball stadium, which in turn was named after [Koishikawa Korakuen](e3034_003.html), a nearby Japanese [landscape garden](e2099.html).

Below are the major attractions of Tokyo Dome City and surroundings:

* 

  Tokyo Dome

  Hours and entrance fees vary depending on the specific events.

  Tokyo Dome, seating 55,000, is the home stadium of the Yomiuri Giants, a professional [baseball](e2081.html) team. Concerts, festivals and other events are held in the stadium when there are no games. Tokyo Dome, nicknamed "Big Egg", was completed in 1988 and replaced the former Korakuen Stadium.
* 

  The Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum

  Hours: 10:00 to 17:00 (until 18:00 on game days)  
  Closed: Mondays (except [holidays](e2062.html) and game days), Dec 29 to Jan 1  
  Admission: 600 yen

  Located inside Tokyo Dome, this museum introduces visitors to the history of [baseball](e2081.html) in Japan and also contains the Baseball Hall of Fame which honors great players and other people who made outstanding contributions to Japanese baseball.
* 

  LaQua

  Hours: Daily 11:00am to 9:00am the next morning  
  Closed: A small number of irregular closing days  
  Admission: 3230 yen (extra fee on weekends, holidays and after 1am)

  Opened in 2003, LaQua is a popular relaxation oasis in the center of busy [Tokyo](e2164.html), featuring [hot spring](e2292.html) pools, saunas, relaxation space and various massage and beauty services. The naturally warm [water](e2292_water.html) is pumped to the surface from a depth of around 1700 meters.
* 

  Tokyo Dome City Attractions

  Hours: typically 10:00 to 21:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 4200 yen (1-day pass), 2800 yen (5-ride ticket through [Klook](https://www.klook.com/activity/17371-tokyo-dome-attractions-ticket-tokyo/?aid=12675))

  An amusement park with various rides and entertainment facilities, including roller coasters, a ferris wheel and a tower that drops riders from a height of 80 meters.
* 

  Tokyo Dome Hotel

  Rates for guest rooms start at around 10,000 yen

  The [Tokyo Dome Hotel](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/tokyo-dome-hotel.html?aid=371183) consists of 43 floors and 1006 guest rooms with nice views of the city. The hotel includes ten [restaurants](e2036.html) and bars and several banquet rooms, business and leisure facilities.
* 

  [Koishikawa Korakuen](e3034_003.html)

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: December 29 to January 1  
  Admission: 300 yen

  Not part of Tokyo Dome City, but located only a short walk from it, [Koishikawa Korakuen](e3034_003.html) is a beautiful [landscape garden](e2099.html) from the early [Edo Period](e2128.html) that is enjoyable during all four seasons of the year.

Tokyo Dome City is best accessed from **Suidobashi Station** on the [JR Chuo Line](e2372.html) (only the yellow, local trains stop here) or from **Korakuen Station** (on the Marunouchi and Namboku subway lines) or the adjacent **Kasuga Station** (on the Oedo and Mita subway lines).

### From Tokyo Station

8 minutes and 180 yen by Marunouchi Subway Line or 10 minutes and 170 yen by [JR Chuo Line](e2372.html) with a transfer from the orange rapid service to the yellow local service at Ochanomizu Station.

### From Shinjuku Station

15 minutes and 180 yen by yellow, local trains on the [JR Chuo Line](e2372.html).

[Orientation in Tokyo](e2017.html)