---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3962.html
title: Kyoto Museum Guide
description: An introduction to Kyoto's museums.
keywords: kyoto, museum, guide, museums
content_type: attraction
word_count: 4071
char_count: 28766
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:43:51
---

As the imperial capital and center of court life for over 1000 years, [Kyoto](e2158.html) has naturally played a central role in the development of Japanese culture. The modern city continues to take pride in its cultural heritage, offering an interesting set of [museums](e2428.html) devoted to history, arts, crafts and more. A selection of some of the city's most prominent museums is listed below.

Visitors planning to see multiple museums around Kyoto and [Osaka](e4017.html) should consider the **Kansai Grutto Pass**. The pass provides free or discounted admission to around 50 museums and galleries in the [Kansai Region](/list/e1105.html) and costs 1400 yen. It is available annually from early April through January of the following year and is valid for one entry to each participating museum. The pass expires three months from its first use or on March 31, whichever occurs first.

### History

* 

  [Kyoto National Museum](e3962_kyoto.html)

  Across from [Sanjusangendo Temple](e3900.html)  
  Hours and fees depend on exhibition; see [details](e3962_kyoto.html#section_admission).

  One of four national museums across the country, the [Kyoto National Museum](e3962_kyoto.html) focuses on traditional Japanese art. It stages both, exhibitions from its permanent collection and various temporary special exhibitions.
* 

  The Museum of Kyoto

  5 minute walk southeast of Karasuma-Oike Station  
  Hours: 10:00 to 19:30 (entry until 19:00)  
  Closed: Mondays (or following day if Mon is a [national holiday](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html)  
  Admission: 500 yen (permanent exhibition)

  This museum offers an attractive permanent exhibition about the history of Kyoto, although its floor space is relatively small, and information in English is limited, making it difficult to fully appreciate without Japanese reading skills. In addition, special exhibitions with a separate admission fee are held periodically.

### Arts and crafts

* 

  Raku Museum

  About 15 min from Imadegawa Station  
  Hours: 10:00 to 16:30 (entry until 16:00)  
  Closed: Mondays (except [national holidays](e2062.html)) and between exhibitions  
  Admission: Varies depending on exhibition, typically 1200 yen

  The Raku Museum features [pottery](e2329.html) created using Raku family techniques and traditions. Many of the ceramic works are related to the [tea ceremony](e2096.html), especially tea bowls, but also vases and water vessels. The family put down roots in the location of the museum in the [Momoyama Period](e2123.html) and was favored by tea master Sen no Rikyu.
* 

  [Nishijin Textile Center](e3944.html)

  Horikawa-Imadegawa bus stop or 10 minute walk from Imadegawa Station  
  Hours: 10:00 to 16:00  
  Closed: Mondays (or next day if Mon is a [holiday](e2062.html)), Dec 29 to Jan 3  
  Admission: Free

  Nishijin Textile Center (Nishijin-ori Kaikan), named after the city district and local kimono weaving technique, offers interesting displays on [kimono](e2101.html). Visitors can learn about silk production and see artisans at work. Various hands-on experiences are offered (advance reservations required). There is a large shopping section.
* 

  Museum of Modern Art, Kyoto

  Near [Heian Shrine](e3904.html)  
  Hours: 10:00 to 18:00 (until 20:00 on Fridays)  
  Closed: Mondays (or following day if Monday is a [national holiday](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html)  
  Admission: 430 yen (does not include special exhibition fee, which varies)

  Often referred to by its initials, MOMAK, the Museum of Modern Art, Kyoto changes the works on display from its permanent collection every couple of months. There are also special exhibitions organized in conjunction with other museums or groups. The museum building itself is a modern construction that was completed in 1986.
* 

  Kyoto City Kyocera Museum of Art

  Near [Heian Shrine](e3904.html)  
  Hours: 10:00 to 18:00 (entry until 17:30)  
  Closed: Mondays (except [national holidays](e2062.html)), Dec 28 to Jan 2  
  Admission: 730 yen (collection), fees for special exhibitions vary

  Located across from MOMAK near [Heian Shrine](e3904.html), this city-operated art museum was opened in the 1930s to celebrate the enthronement of the new [emperor](e2135.html). It underwent major renovations from 2017 to 2020 and renamed to reflect the financial support by the Kyoto-based Kyocera company. The large brick building has a lot of floor space and stages both exhibitions from its collection centered around art by Kyoto artists and special exhibitions.

### Industry and commerce

* 

  [Kyoto Railway Museum](e3972.html)

  Next to Umekoji-Kyotonishi Station or 20 minute walk from [Kyoto Station](e3922.html)  
  Hours: 10:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Wednesdays (except [holidays](e2062.html)), Dec 30 to Jan 1  
  Admission: 1500 yen

  Opened in 2016 by JR West, this is one of Japan's three great railway museums alongside JR East's [Railway Museum](e6527.html) in [Saitama](e6525.html) and JR Central's [SCMAGLEV and Railway Park](e3314.html) in [Nagoya](e2155.html). It covers the history of railways from steam locomotives to the [shinkansen](e2018.html).
* 

  Lake Biwa Canal Museum

  500 meters east of the museums in front of [Heian Shrine](e3904.html)  
  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Mondays (or next day if Mon is a [holiday](e2062.html)), Dec 29 to Jan 3  
  Admission: Free

  This interesting museum is dedicated to the construction of the seven kilometer long Lake Biwa Canal, which runs between Kyoto and Lake Biwa to the east. The canal was a massive project in the late 1800s to improve transportation and provide Kyoto with additional water. The museum displays maps, models and tools.
* 

  Gekkeikan Okura Sake Museum

  About 10 min from Chushojima or Momoyama Goryo-mae Stations  
  Hours: 9:30 to 16:30 (entry until 16:00)  
  Closed: [New Year](e2276.html) and [Obon](e2286.html) holidays  
  Admission: 600 yen

  Gekkeikan is one of the largest [sake](e2037_sake.html) companies in Japan. The Gekkeikan Okura Sake Museum was established in [Fushimi](e3938.html), the same area as the company's original brewery, and displays traditional tools and methods of sake brewing. There is a sake tasting at the end of a visit to the museum.

### Entertainment

* 

  [Toei Uzumasa Eigamura](e3934.html)

  5 min from Uzumasa-Koryuji Station, 15 min from Hanazono Station  
  Hours: Typically from 9:00 or 10:00 until 17:00  
  Closed: Irregularly closed for maintenance  
  Admission: 2400 yen

  The [Eigamura](e3934.html) is part of the Toei film studios in Kyoto. It also serves as a theme park, where visitors can see first hand the sets that are used to film popular movies and TV dramas set in the [feudal ages](e2128.html).
* 

  [Kyoto International Manga Museum](e3946.html)

  Just beside Karasuma-Oike Station  
  Hours: 10:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Wed (or next day in case of [national holidays](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html)  
  Admission: 1200 yen (special exhibitions not included)

  The [Kyoto International Manga Museum](e3946.html) serves as both a facility for [manga](e2070.html) research and an exhibition space. The museum has a massive collection of manga that can be browsed by guests, and there are also special exhibitions on themes related to international manga.

[How to get to and around Kyoto](e2363.html)