---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3252.html
title: Fujiko F. Fujio Museum (Doraemon Museum)
description: Visitor guide for the Fujiko F. Fujio Museum or Doraemon Museum in Kawasaki City.
keywords: fujiko, f, f., fujio, doraemon, museum, kawasaki
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1916
char_count: 12590
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:31:12
---

The Fujiko F. Fujio Museum (藤子・F・不二雄ミュージアム), also informally known as the Doraemon Museum, is a fanciful art museum found in the suburbs of [Kawasaki](e3250.html). It is based on the work of Fujiko F. Fujio (nom de plume of manga artist Fujimoto Hiroshi) who is the creator of Doraemon, an influential series about a robotic cat from the 22nd century who travels back in time to befriend a group of kids. The museum requires advance reservations.

Doraemon has been around for decades and remains extremely popular today. So although the museum is aimed at children, it also appeals to adults who grew up with the series. While not large, it has a pretty extensive collection of Fujiko F. Fujio's work, including original artwork from Doraemon, 21-emon, Kaibutsukun, and several of Fujiko's other series. An excellent English audio guide is included with admission and has a lot of commentary on Fujiko's life and the various artwork on display.

The second, more hands-on half of the museum is aimed towards small children. It features a theater displaying an original short film, a manga reading room, and several play rooms. A few life-size statues of Doraemon characters, that you can touch and take pictures with, are found outside around the museum grounds. There is also a cafe selling Doraemon themed dishes, and a well stocked gift shop with character goods from Doraemon and Fujiko's other series.

The Fujiko F. Fujio Museum is most easily accessed from Noborito Station, which lies along both the Odakyu Odawara Line (20 minutes, 270 yen by express train from [Shinjuku](e3011.html), frequent departures) and the JR Nambu Line (30 minutes, 320 yen from Kawasaki Station, frequent departures). A shuttle bus (10 minutes, 220 yen) operates every 10-15 minutes between the station and the museum.

Alternatively, the museum is about a 15 minute walk from either Mukogaoka Yuen Station on the Odakyu Odawara Line (20 minutes, 270 yen from Shinjuku) or Shukugawara Station on the JR Nambu Line (25 minutes, 320 yen from Kawasaki).

[How to get to and around Kawasaki](e3251.html)

Museum shuttle buses in front of Noborito Station