---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3823.html
title: Kanaya Hotel History House
description: Visitor guide for the Kanaya Hotel History House, an traditional Japanese building that served as the predecessor of the Kanaya Hotel..
keywords: kanaya, history, samurai, house, nikko, hotel, hotels, tochigi, rekishikan
content_type: attraction
word_count: 1880
char_count: 12683
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:01:43
---

The Kanaya Hotel History House (金谷ホテル歴史館, Kanya Hotel Rekishikan) is a historical building in [Nikko](e3800.html) that served as the predecessor of the celebrated [Kanaya Hotel](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/nikko-kanaya-hotel.html?aid=371183). The house is open for the public to explore and provides a window into the Nikko of centuries past. It stands next to a bakery which also sells the admission tickets for the house.

After the end of [Japan's era of isolation](e2128.html), [Nikko](e3800.html) became a popular summer resort among the foreign diplomats and business people in Japan. The **Kanaya Hotel** has been one of the premier hotels in the area for accommodating such guests and today stands as the oldest Western-style hotel in all of Japan. While the hotel is now located one kilometer down the road on a hill above the [Shinkyo Bridge](e3814.html), its history began at the Kanaya Hotel History House.

One of the many tatami rooms

The building used to be a residence of Mr. Kanaya and was turned into and opened as a guesthouse in 1872. As the Kanaya Cottage Inn it served travelers for roughly twenty years before it was replaced by the Kanaya Hotel on a separate site. Among the guests who stayed at the inn are Albert Einstein and Isabella Bird, a 19th century British travel writer who contributed to introducing Nikko to the Western world.

The wooden building is two stories high which is rare for residences from that era. Today, visitors can explore the building's [tatami rooms](e2007.html) and intricate stairways and corridors, and view the property's nice [garden](e2099.html).

Looking out on the garden from the building's second story

Kanaya Hotel History House is located ten minute [bus](e2015.html) ride from Tobu and JR Nikko stations (350 yen one way, 600 yen day pass, covered by the [Nikko Passes](e2358_002.html)). Get off at the Kanya Hotel Rekishikan (金谷ホテル歴史館) bus stop. The house can also be reached in about a 20 minute walk from [Toshogu Shrine](e3801.html) and is also not far from the [Tamozawa Villa](e3808.html).

[How to get around Nikko](e3805.html)