---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3318.html
title: Ghibli Park
description: Visitor guide for Ghibli Park, a theme park in Nagoya about the movies by Studio Ghibli.
keywords: ghibli, park, nagoya
content_type: attraction
word_count: 2337
char_count: 15186
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:56:34
---

Satsuki and Mei's House

Ghibli Park (ジブリパーク) is a [theme park](e2067.html) about the popular [animated movies](e2070.html) by Studio Ghibli, not to be confused with the [Ghibli Museum](e3041.html) in [Tokyo](e2164.html). It opened in November 2022 just outside [Nagoya](e2155.html), and unlike other theme parks does not feature any rides - apart from a few small ones for kids - but rather lets visitors delve into the atmospheric fantasy worlds presented in the various popular Ghibli movies.

The theme park consists of five areas, which are not joined together but found spread across the Expo 2005 Aichi Commemorative Park, the former site of the [2005 World Expo](/expo/).

[Park tickets](#section_admission) must be purchased in advance, and the daily visitor limits are purposely set low to provide visitors with a pleasant atmosphere, free of overcrowding. As a result, it can be expected that getting tickets will remain a challenge for a time to come.

### Park areas

* 

  Ghibli's Grand Warehouse

  The main area of the Ghibli Park, the Grand Warehouse features a wide array of Ghibli-related attractions, including a screening room showing exclusive short movies, various exhibition areas and a children's play area.
* 

  Hill of Youth

  The first area encountered when entering the park from the Linimo station, the Hill of Youth features the elevator tower seen in "Laputa: Castle in the Sky" and "Howl's Moving Castle" and a house from "Whisper of the Heart".
* 

  Dondoko Forest

  The main attraction of Dondoko Forest is Satsuki and Mei's House from the movie "My Neighbor Totoro". It also features a large statue of Totoro, called Dondoko-do, which only children are allowed to enter.
* 

  Mononoke Village

  Inspired by the movie "Princess Mononoke", this area features a grass-covered hut, where a local specialty, Gohei Mochi, can be made, and large sculptures of the Tatari-gami demon spirit and the Okkoto-nushi boar god, whose back serves as a slide for kids.
* 

  Valley of Witches

  This area is themed after the various Ghibli movies featuring witches, including "Kiki's Delivery Service", "Howl's Moving Castle" and "Earwig and the Witch". It includes a small European-style town with building from multiple films, Kiki's residence, the castle from "Howl's Castle" and a couple of rides for small kids.

Take the Higashiyama Subway Line from central [Nagoya](e2155.html) to its terminal station, Fujigaoka (30 minutes, 290 yen, frequent departures). From Fujigaoka take the Linimo elevated train and get off at Aichikyuhaku Kinenkoen Station just in front of the north entrance gate of the Expo 2005 Aichi Commemorative Park (15 minutes, 340 yen, frequent departures).

Alternatively, there are direct [buses](e2015.html) between the Meitetsu Bus Center next to Nagoya Station and the Expo 2005 Aichi Commemorative Park. The ride takes 40 minutes and costs 1200 yen one way. Buses operate roughly hourly.

APM Cat Bus

Ghibli Park's areas are spread across the Expo 2005 Aichi Commemorative Park. From the station, it is about a 5-10 minute walk to the Hill of Youth and Ghibli's Grand Warehouse areas, from where the other areas can be reached in 5-15 minute walks. There are also free buses, which operate every 20-30 minutes within the park.

In addition, the Ghibli-themed APM Cat Bus connects Mononoke Village with the Dondoko Forest in a ten minute ride through the forest. Tickets for a specific time slot can be purchased at ticket machines in the park and cost 1000 yen one way.

[How to get to and around Nagoya](e3302.html)