---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3434.html
title: Shinshoji Temple
description: Visitor guide for Shinshoji Temple, a unique Zen temple outside central Fukuyama City, Hiroshima Prefecture, Japan.
keywords: shinshoji, temple, rinzai, zen, buddhism, buddhist, fukuyama, hiroshima
content_type: attraction
word_count: 821
char_count: 5447
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:02:53
---

Shinshoji Temple (神勝寺, Shinshōji) is a [Buddhist](e2055.html) temple of the Rinzai Zen school about 15 kilometers southwest of central [Fukuyama](e3430.html). Constructed in 1965 by a local industrialist, the [temple](e2058.html) is built on sprawling, forested grounds with a hill at the back and a pond in front. There is a network of walking trails, and the temple buildings are spread across the grounds.

The facilities at Shinshoji Temple are intended to provide visitors a Zen experience through various mediums, including [tea](e2041.html) houses, meditation classes, a museum gallery dedicated to artwork by Zen master Hakuin, as well as a unique [contemporary art](e2115.html) installation.

The International Zen Training Monastery behind the temple's central pond

From the outside, Shinshoji Temple looks like a regular [temple](e2058.html) with its main front gate. However, the difference is evident once you step over the threshold. Visitors are greeted by the low sloping roof of the unique visitor center which houses the ticket counter as well as a temple and museum shop, and by a large pond. Nearby stand a 350 year old building brought over from another temple in [Shiga Prefecture](/list/e1224.html), which has been repurposed into a teahouse, and a [bathhouse](e2074.html). Both teahouse and bathhouse are open to visitors for an additional fee.

The main hall is located at the far end of the temple grounds beyond the pond on a hill. From the entrance gate, it takes about 15-20 minutes to reach it by walking past the pond and then up a flight of stairs or via a more scenic nature trail through the woods. The main hall houses a small museum that showcases the works of Hakuin, a prominent Zen master. The scenic nature walk also passes two teahouses in the woods. Visitors can appreciate the designs of the teahouses as well as enjoy [tea](e2041.html) and [sweets](e2312.html) in an atmospheric setting.

Part of the main hall at the top of the hill

Shinshoji Udon is the only item on the menu at the restaurant in Shinshoji Temple. The noodles are longer and fatter compared to regular [udon](/r/e105.html) and are meant to be dipped into a broth and accompanied with simple side dishes. The restaurant stands near the far end of the pond.

Kohtei is the eye-catching, [contemporary art](e2115.html) installation on the hill across the road from the visitor center. It stands out from the rest of the temple buildings with its seemingly shimmering, traditional wooden shingles, arranged to resemble a floating ship. Inside is a light show over a small body of water which is meant to be experienced with your five senses. The performance is held every 30 minutes and lasts about 15 minutes. Note that the Kohtei performance is not suitable for those who are claustrophobic or have a fear of the dark.

Kohtei

At an additional cost, visitors to Shinshoji Temple can participate in [hands-on activities](e2424.html) like sutra copying (1000 yen, no advance notice required) or Zen meditation (1000 yen, advance reservation required). Meditation sessions are held in the International Zen Training Monastery which is off-limits to regular visitors so as not to disturb those meditating.

Furthermore, the temple offers a one-day Zen experience (5600 yen per person, advance reservation required). The day begins with Zen meditation followed by an [udon](/r/e105.html) lunch. The second half of the day continues with sutra copying before ending with tea at one of the teahouses. A monk introduces the concepts and leads participants through the process. An English speaking monk is available on certain days, and it is best to inquire about his availability when making your reservation.

Zazen meditation in the International Zen Training Monastery

Shinshoji Temple is located on the rural, hilly peninsula south of central [Fukuyama](e3430.html), about ten kilometers from Fukuyama Station.

### From Central Fukuyama

#### By bus

[Buses](e2015.html) operate twice per hour from Fukuyama Station (South Exit) in direction of Miroku no Sato (みろくの里), except for a break around noon. Get off at the Tenjinyama bus stop (天神山, 25 minutes, 580 yen one way) from where the temple can be reached in a 20 minute walk. On weekends, a small number of buses serve the Shinshoji bus stop (30 minutes, 640 yen one way) next to the temple.

#### By car

It takes just under 30 minutes to drive from central Fukuyama to Shinshoji Temple. [Rental car](e2024.html) outlets can be found around Fukuyama Station. A [taxi](e2021.html) ride costs around 4500 yen one way.

### From Tomonoura

There is no convenient direct public transportation between [Tomonoura](e3432.html) and Shinshoji Temple. A [taxi](e2021.html) ride would take about 20 minutes and cost around 5000 yen.

[How to get to and around Fukuyama](e3431.html)