---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4908.html
title: Daishi Kyokai
description: Visitor guide for Daishi Kyokai, the training and administrative headquarters of Shingon Buddhism on Mount Koya.
keywords: Daishi, Kyokai, koyasan, koya, mount, shingon, buddhism
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 1615
char_count: 11069
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:06:13
---

Daishi Kyokai's administrative building (left) and Henjoden (right)

Daishi Kyokai (大師教会, Daishi Kyōkai) is the administrative center of [Shingon Buddhism](e2055.html), and is responsible for spreading the teachings of [Kobo Daishi](e4901.html), the sect's founder. The complex consists of two buildings: Henjoden, a traditional temple hall, that was built in 1915 and is dedicated to Kobo Daishi, and a modern building for administration, lectures and training. An English information desk is available in this building.

Visitors can participate in a few activities at Daishi Kyokai, such as receiving Buddhist precepts (jukai) or copying Buddhist scriptures (shakyo). No advance reservations are required.

**Jukai** is a formal ceremony administered to Buddhist laypeople; however, anyone may receive jukai and participation does not make you Buddhist unless you wish to become so. Jukai takes place in a very dark room adjacent to the Henjoden's main hall, where participants sit on the [tatami](e2007.html) floor and recite after a priest. During the ceremony they repent all their past misdeeds, take refuge in the Buddha, and repeat the Ten Wholesome Precepts, a Buddhist moral code. The whole ceremony takes about 30 minutes and visitors receive a certificate at the end acknowledging their participation.

Daishi Kyokai also offers sutra copying (**shakyo**) which has long been practiced as a form of meditation and devotional act. Participants are given a sheet of paper with the popular Heart Sutra lightly printed on it. You then trace over the [kanji characters](e2046.html) with a brush pen.

Copying the Heart Sutra

Daishi Kyokai stands in [Koyasan](e4900.html)'s town center, a five minute walk from the Senjuinbashi intersection and just a few steps from the [Garan](e4902.html) and [Kongobuji Temple](e4903.html).

[How to get to and around Koyasan](e4904.html)