---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4900.html
title: Koyasan Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Koyasan, the center of Shingon Buddhism.
keywords: koyasan, mount, koya, shingon, guide, travel, tourism, sightseeing, tourist, visitor, information
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 1607
char_count: 11429
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:49:35
---

Mount Koya (高野山, Kōyasan) is the center of [Shingon Buddhism](e2055.html), an important Buddhist sect which was introduced to Japan in 805 by Kobo Daishi (also known as Kukai), one of Japan's most significant religious figures. A small, secluded [temple](e2058.html) town has developed around the sect's headquarters that Kobo Daishi built on Koyasan's wooded mountaintop. It is also the site of Kobo Daishi's mausoleum and the start and end point of the Shikoku 88 Temple Pilgrimage.

Kobo Daishi began construction on the original [Garan](e4902.html) temple complex in 826 after wandering the country for years in search of a suitable place to center his religion. Since then over one hundred [temples](e2058.html) have sprung up along the streets of Koyasan. The most important among them are [Kongobuji](e4903.html), the head temple of Shingon Buddhism, and [Okunoin](e4901.html), the site of Kobo Daishi's mausoleum.

Koyasan is also one of the best places to experience an overnight stay at a [temple lodging (shukubo)](e4905.html) where you can get a taste of a monk's lifestyle, eating vegetarian monk's cuisine (shojin ryori) and attending the morning prayers. Around fifty temples offer this service to both pilgrims and visitors.

* [](/e/e4905.html)

  1

  Temple

  [Temple Lodging•••](/e/e4905.html)

  Overnight at a Buddhist temple.

  4.6

  

  478
* [](/e/e4901.html)

  2

  Temple

  [Okunoin Temple••](/e/e4901.html)

  Temple where Kobo Daishi is enshrined.

  4.5

  

  636
* [](/e/e4903.html)

  3

  Temple

  [Kongobuji Temple•](/e/e4903.html)

  Head monastery of the Shingon sect.

  3.9

  

  525
* [](/e/e4902.html)

  4

  Temple

  [Garan•](/e/e4902.html)

  Koyasan's central temple complex.

  3.8

  

  417
* [](/e/e4906.html)

  5

  Museum

  [Reihokan Museum•](/e/e4906.html)

  Displays many of Koyasan's cultural treasures.

  3.6

  

  107
* [](/e/e4909.html)

  6

  Hiking

  [Pilgrimage Trails](/e/e4909.html)

  Hiking and walking trails to and around Koyasan.

  4.4

  

  173
* [](/e/e4908.html)

  7

  Temple

  [Daishi Kyokai](/e/e4908.html)

  Center offering Buddhist activities and lectures.

  3.8

  

  233
* [](/e/e4907.html)

  8

  Historic Site

  [Tokugawa Mausoleum](/e/e4907.html)

  Koyasan mausoleum of the Tokugawa family.

  3.5

  

  251

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Koyasan](/e/e4900.html)

[Getting to and around Mount Koya](/e/e4904.html)
[See access info](/e/e4904.html)

Getting In:

[Koyasan World Heritage Ticket](/e/e2358_012.html)

[

2 Day

Mountain Retreat

Koyasan Two-Day Itinerary

* Fascinating **Buddhist temples**
* Overnight at a **temple**
* Walk a **pilgrims trail**

View itinerary](e4910_koyasan_2day.html)