---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4904.html
title: Osaka to Mount Koya\: How to get to and around Mount Koya
description: How to get to and around Koyasan.
keywords: koyasan, mount, koya, access, orientation, transportation, directions, bus, train, cablecar
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 1995
char_count: 13605
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:06:07
---

From/To:

OsakaKyotoNaraTokyoKumano

[Koyasan](e4900.html) is most conveniently accessed by Nankai Railway from [Osaka](e2157.html)'s Namba or Shin-Imamiya stations. Take the Nankai Koya Line from either station to the Gokurakubashi terminal station. A few [limited express](e2016.html) trains operate directly to Gokurakubashi (80 minutes, 1720 yen, every 1-3 hours). Otherwise take an express or rapid express train (100 minutes, 930 yen, every 20-30 minutes), most of which require a transfer at Hashimoto Station along the way.

At Gokurakubashi, transfer to the cablecar which travels up the mountain to Koyasan. The ride takes about five minutes and costs 500 yen. From the top station, it is a ten minute [bus](e2015.html) ride into the town center (460 yen to Senjuinbashi bus stop). Note that it is not permitted to walk along the street which connects the cablecar station with the town center.

To save money consider using the [Koyasan World Heritage Ticket](e2358_012.html) or [Kansai Railway Pass](e2357_005.html).

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

The temples of [Koyasan](e4900.html) form a small town on the wooded mountain, about 1000 meters above sea level. Most visitors arrive by cablecar to Koyasan Station, which is a ten minute [bus](e2015.html) or [taxi](e2021.html) ride from Koyasan's town center. Note that it is not permitted to walk along the street between the cablecar station and the town center.

The town of Koyasan is relatively flat and many of its attractions are easily explored on foot. Most of the sites, including the [Garan](e4902.html), [Kongobuji](e4903.html) and the [Reihokan Museum](e4906.html) are located in the town center, a short walk away from the Senjuinbashi intersection. Among the main attractions, only [Okunoin](e4901.html) stands outside of the town center at the eastern end of the town. At the western end of the town stands [Daimon Gate](e4909.html), the traditional point of entry to Koyasan.

Three [bus](e2015.html) routes serve the town: the main line connects Koyasan Station with [Okunoin](e4901.html), a second line connects Koyasan Station with [Daimon Gate](e4909.html), and a third line connects Daimon Gate with Okunoin. All bus lines pass the Senjuinbashi intersection at the center of town, where the Koyasan Tourist Information Center is located.

Koyasan Bus Network:

A good audio guide is available from the Koyasan Central Tourist Information Center for a 500 yen rental fee. The audio guide is provided in five languages (English, Japanese, Korean, Chinese and French) and may be checked out between 8:30 and 16:30 to be returned by the following morning. It offers detailed explanations about almost all the local sites of interest.

The following discount tickets are available for visitors to [Koyasan](e4900.html). Note that the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) does not cover access to Koyasan or transportation inside Koyasan.

* **Combination Ticket** (2500 yen)
    
  This ticket provides admission to many points of interest on Koyasan, including [Kongobuji](e4903.html), the Kondo Hall and Daito Pagoda at the [Garan](e4902.html), the [Reihokan Museum](e4906.html) and the [Tokugawa Mausoleum](e4907.html). It also entitles holders to participate in a jukai service at [Daishi Kyokai](e4908.html). It is available at the Koyasan tourist information offices and can be used over multiple days.
* **Koyasan World Heritage Ticket** (from 3140 yen) - [more details](e2358_012.html)
    
  The Koyasan World Heritage Ticket is available from Nankai Namba, Shin-Imamiya and Tengachaya Stations for 3140 yen and includes a round trip ticket from Osaka to Koyasan, unlimited bus travel within Koyasan town and discounted admission to [Kongobuji](e4903.html), the [Reihokan Museum](e4906.html) and the Kondo Hall and Daito Pagoda at the [Garan](e4902.html). The World Heritage Ticket is valid over two consecutive days.
* **Kansai Railway Pass** (5600 or 7000 yen) - [more details](e2357_005.html)
    
  The [Kansai Railway Pass](e2357_005.html) may pay off if you visit Koyasan in combination with other places in the [Kansai Region](/list/e1105.html). Alternatively the pass can make sense to those who stay at Koyasan for more than two days, as the Koyasan World Heritage Ticket is only valid on two consecutive calendar days, while the Kansai Railway Pass can be used on non-consecutive days.
* **1-Day Bus Pass** (1100 yen)
    
  A one day [bus](e2015.html) pass provides unlimited use of [buses](e2015.html) on Koyasan on one calendar day. It can be purchased at the upper station of the Koyasan Cablecar.

Bus stop in front of Koyasan Station