---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4803.html
title: Food Stalls (Yatai)
description: Visitor guide for the food stalls (yatai) of Fukuoka.
keywords: fukuoka, hakata, food, stall, stalls, yatai, tenjin, nakasu
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 2194
char_count: 14818
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:22:51
---

Fukuoka's famous food stalls (yatai) located along the river on Nakasu Island

[Fukuoka](e2161.html)'s open air food stands (屋台, Yatai) are possibly the city's best known symbol. Yatai can generally seat about seven or eight people and provide an atmospheric outdoor environment to enjoy various foods that are generally simple and filling. There are dozens of yatai scattered across Fukuoka, but the best place to find them is on the southern end of Nakasu Island. Located in the middle of the city, Nakasu Island has a long row of around 20 yatai that are attractively situated along the water.

Typical [dishes](e2035.html) enjoyed at yatai are [grilled chicken skewers](/r/e102.html) (yakitori), hot pot (oden) and most famously [Hakata Ramen](e4811.html), a local noodle dish featuring relatively thin [ramen noodles](e2042.html) in a pork bone based soup (tonkotsu). Various [alcoholic drinks](e2037.html) are also available, and help make the yatai a great place to get in touch with the locals, although many of the "locals" happen to be Japanese tourists visiting [Fukuoka](e2161.html) from other parts of Japan.

Yatai are typically open from around 6pm to around 2am, except in very bad weather. Many stands close one day of the week. The closure day varies from stand to stand, but is often Sunday. There can be waiting times for popular stands, especially on Fridays and Saturdays.

Dining at one of Nakasu's food stalls

Yatai are located throughout the city center, and visitors will likely come across some while walking through busy tourist areas in the evening.

The row of stalls on Nakasu Island is a short walk from Kushida Shrine Station along the Nanakuma Subway Line (1 minute, 210 yen from Hakata Station).

[How to get to and around Fukuoka](e4802.html)