---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4283.html
title: Kaga Museum Guide
description: A list of some interesting museums found around the Kaga Region in southern Ishikawa Prefecture.
keywords: kaga, onsen, museum, guide, museums
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 859
char_count: 6465
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:18:05
---

A variety of museums are spread out across [Kaga Onsen](e4275.html). They include museums dedicated to the local handicrafts, commerce and history, as well as those about more whimsical subjects. Below is a selection of some of the museums found in the area:

### Arts and Crafts

* 

  Kutaniyaki Art Museum

  5 minute walk from Daishoji Station, served by [Can Bus](e4276.html#canbus)  
  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Mondays (except [public holidays](e2062.html))  
  Admission: 560 yen

  The Kutaniyaki Museum is an art museum displaying collections of Kutaniyaki pottery, a famous style of [pottery](e2329.html) characterized by the use of green, purple, yellow, red and blue glazes, which developed during the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868).
* 

  Kutaniyaki Kiln Exhibition Hall

  Just outside central Yamashiro Onsen, served by [Can Bus](e4276.html#canbus)  
  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Tuesdays, [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission: 350 yen

  Located just outside central [Yamashiro Onsen](e4277.html), this [pottery](e2329.html) museum displays a variety of antique and modern kutaniyaki pieces as well as the ruins of a large, multi leveled kiln from the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868). Hands-on workshops are offered as well.
* 

  Rosanjin's Hut Iroha

  Central Yamashiro Onsen, served by [Can Bus](e4276.html#canbus)  
  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Wednesdays (except for [public holidays](e2062.html))  
  Admission: 560 yen

  Rosanjin, one of Japan's most famous ceramicists, lived in Yamashiro Onsen for a short period of his life. This is his restored former residence with a small attached museum with some of his work.

### History and Commerce

* 

  Kitamae Ship Museum

  Near Hashidate Port, served by [Can Bus](e4276.html#canbus)  
  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 350 yen

  Hashidate Port near [Kaga Onsen](e4275.html) served as a stop along the shipping trade route along the Sea of Japan coast during the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868). Housed in a large former residence of a ship builder, this museum is devoted to the ships built in Hashidate and to the trade route they were employed on.
* 

  Ishikawa Aviation Plaza

  Across the street from Komatsu Airport  
  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: December 29 to January 3  
  Admission: Free

  The Ishikawa Aviation Plaza is a free aviation museum just across the street from [Komatsu Airport](e4282.html). It has an interesting selection of decommissioned aircraft in its enclosed hanger as well as flight simulators, models and other exhibits.
* 

  Motorcar Museum of Japan

  Near Awazu Onsen, served by [Can Bus](e4276.html#canbus)  
  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (until 16:30 from December to March)  
  Admission ends 30 minutes before closing  
  Closed: Wednesdays, December 26 to 31  
  Admission: 1200 yen

  The Motorcar Museum of Japan has an impressive display of over 500 cars, trucks and motorcycles from Japan and around the world, including many vintage models. The museum also has a funny (and functional) "toilets from around the world" display.

### Others

* 

  Museum of Snow and Ice

  Closed for renovations through March 2026  
  Katayamazu Onsen, served by [Can Bus](e4276.html#canbus)  
  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Wednesdays  
  Admission: 560 yen

  Near central [Katayamazu Onsen](e4279.html), the snow and ice museum displays the work and equipment of Nakayama Ukichiro, a local scientist who devoted his life to the study of snow crystals. The museum also offers interesting hands on activities and experiments.
* 

  Matsui Hideki Baseball Museum

  10 minutes by taxi from Komatsu Station  
  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:50)  
  Closed: Tuesdays, December 31 to January 2  
  Admission: 400 yen

  The Matsui Hideki Baseball Museum is an interesting museum displaying the life and career of Matsui Hideki, a native of the Kaga Onsen region and one of Japan's most successful baseball players. A hands on section allows visitors to handle his glove, bat and other equipment. A lot of information is available in English.
* 

  Ishikawa Insect Museum

  20 minute walk from Tsurugi Station  
  Hours: 9:30 to 17:00 (until 16:30 Nov to Mar)  
  Closed: Tuesdays (or the next day if Tues is a [holiday](e2062.html)), Dec 29 to Jan 1  
  Admission: 410 yen

  The well designed Ishikawa Insect Museum provides visitors with a variety of live exhibits as well as mounted insects from around the world. The museum includes a beautifully done butterfly house and hands on experiences with living insects.

[How to get to and around Kaga Onsen](e4276.html)