---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4627.html
title: Ebino Kogen
description: Travel guide for Ebino Kogen, a highliand in the Kirishima Mountains on Kyushu, Japan.
keywords: ebino, kogen, highland, kirishima, mountains
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 480
char_count: 3453
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:11:07
---

Volcanic Activity Update

Updated: December 1, 2025

Due to increased volcanic activity and gases around Mount Io in Ebino Kogen, a small no-entry zone is currently maintained around the crater, resulting in the closure of the road that connects Ebino Kogen with Kobayashi (except on weekends between 9:00 and 17:00, when the road is opened temporarily to vehicles with roofs, unless the concentration of gases is too high) and some walking trails around Ebino Kogen as shown on the map below.

Ebino Kogen (えびの高原, Ebino Kōgen) is a small town in the mountains of [Kirishima](e4625.html) just inside [Miyazaki Prefecture](/list/e1245.html)'s borders. Ebino Kogen means "shrimp highlands" and is so named because in late summer the pampas grass that blankets the ground takes on a pinkish hue from iron in the soil, making the area appear to be covered in fields of shrimp.

Ebino Kogen is surrounded by beautiful landscapes, famous mountains and popular hiking trails, and as such, attracts a lot of visitors. Nevertheless, the town remains small, offering little more than two hotels, a campground and a visitor center.

Rokkannonmi Pond

A popular hike around Ebino Kogen starts at the visitor center and loops around Rokkannonmi Pond and back. It is an easy two hours, with good views of the surrounding mountains and highlands. About 30 minutes into the hike is a one hour detour that takes you around Byakushi Pond.

Mount Karakuni, the highest peak of [Kirishima](e4625.html), overlooks Ebino Kogen and is another popular day hike. The ascent to Karakuni's summit is steep and takes about two hours. It is also part of Kirishima's spectacular 12 kilometer [ridge trail](e4629.html), which leads from Ebino Kogen over several volcanic peaks to Mount Takachiho-no-mine at the other end of the national park.

Picnicking among the pampas grass

Bus network around Kirishima:

Ebino Kogen is best accessed by [rental car](e2024.html), as [public transportation](e627.html) is infrequent. Two to three [buses](e2015.html) per day run between [Maruo Onsen](e4628.html) and Ebino Kogen (30 minutes, 500 yen one way).

### From the Miyazaki side

There is currently no public transportation available from the [Miyazaki](/list/e1245.html) side to Ebino Kogen. There used to be infrequent [buses](e2015.html) from Kobayashi and [Miyazaki City](e8000.html), but they were discontinued due to the road closures caused by volcanic activity.

[How to get to and around Kirishima](e4626.html)