---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4695.html
title: Tanaka Isson Art Museum at Amami Park
description: Visitor guide for the Tanaka Isson Memorial Museum of Art at teh Amami Park on Amami Oshima.
keywords: tanaka, isson, memorial, art, museums, museum, park, amami, oshima
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 429
char_count: 2989
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:19:07
---

Tanaka Isson Memorial Museum of Art (田中一村記念美術館, Tanaka Isson Kinen Bijutsukan) is the main attraction at Amami Park (奄美パーク) in the northeast corner of [Amami Oshima](e4690.html), not far from the airport. Dedicated to the popular late artist who lived on Amami Oshima towards the end of his life, the museum showcases art over five rooms with a mixture of permanent and temporary exhibitions from Isson himself and other artists associated with the island.

Tanaka was born in [Tochigi Prefecture](/list/e1210.html) and worked as a painter there and then in [Chiba Prefecture](/list/e1212.html) for most of his life, but struggled to find success in the Tokyo area art world. At age 50, he decided to relocate to Amami Oshima where he lived an impoverished lifestyle creating paintings of the local flora and birds, only achieving notoriety after his death.

The museum dedicates one hall to each period of the painter's life, showcasing art he produced when living in that particular region. There is an additional hall containing a "Special Exhibition" of selected pieces of the artist's work and yet another hall dedicated to other artists linked to Amami Oshima.

Amami Park itself is located on the grounds of Amami's former airport. Opened in 2001, the park offers a few other attractions on its expansive grounds, including the Amami no Sato folk museum, which showcases local history and culture, and a free observation deck with views of the surrounding area.

Exhibit at the Amami no Sato folk museum

Tanaka Isson Art Museum and Amami Park are located a few hundred meters from the airport in the northeast of the island. The park is approximately 40 minutes by car from downtown Amami City. Alternatively, take a [bus](e2015.html) bound for Sani from central Amami City and alight at Amami Park (45-55 minutes, around 1000 yen, one bus every 1-2 hours).

[How to get to and around Amami Oshima](e4691.html)