---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4600.html
title: Kagoshima Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for the city of Kagoshima, Japan.
keywords: kagoshima, guide, travel, tourism, sightseeing, tourist, visitor, information, city, visit
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 1679
char_count: 11875
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:49:02
---

Kagoshima (鹿児島) is [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html)'s southernmost major city and the capital of [Kagoshima Prefecture](/list/e1246.html). The city is often compared with its Italian sister city Naples due to a similarly mild climate, palm tree-lined streets, relatively hot tempered inhabitants and rumbling [Mount Sakurajima](e4601.html), Kagoshima's Vesuvius.

The city has a rich history as the former seat of one of Japan's most powerful feudal clans, the [Shimazu](e4602.html), who played a central role in the [Meiji Restoration](e2130.html). Besides offering several attractions on its own, the city can also serve as a base for a variety of attractive day trips, such as to the [Kirishima Mountains](e4625.html) and the [Satsuma Peninsula](e4675.html), and as the stepping stone to island destinations further south, including [Yakushima](e4650.html) and [Amami Oshima](e4690.html).

* [](/e/e4601.html)

  1

  Volcano

  [Sakurajima•](/e/e4601.html)

  Active volcano in the bay off Kagoshima.

  4.1

  

  742
* [](/e/e4602.html)

  2

  Garden

  [Senganen Garden•](/e/e4602.html)

  Japanese-style landscape garden.

  4.0

  

  283
* [](/e/e4608.html)

  3

  Zoo/Wildlife

  [Kagoshima Aquarium](/e/e4608.html)

  Interesting aquarium in the Kagoshima Port area.

  3.6

  

  111
* [](/e/e4607.html)

  4

  Viewpoint/Tower

  [Shiroyama Park](/e/e4607.html)

  Mountain top park with a viewpoint over the city.

  3.5

  

  205
* [](/e/e4606.html)

  5

  Museum

  [Reimeikan Museum](/e/e4606.html)

  Large museum about local history and culture.

  3.4

  

  87

Side Trips from Kagoshima

* [](/e/e4650.html)

  1

  [Yakushima•••](/e/e4650.html)

  Subtropical island with ancient cedar forest.

  4.8

  

  314
* [](/e/e4625.html)

  2

  [Kirishima•](/e/e4625.html)

  National Park with volcanic mountain range.

  3.8

  

  297
* [](/e/e4675.html)

  3

  [Satsuma Peninsula•](/e/e4675.html)

  Rural peninsula with hot springs in southern Kyushu.

  3.8

  

  179

[

Kagoshima Food Guide](/e/e4609.html)
[

Kagoshima Cherry Blossom Spots](/e/e4605.html)

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Kagoshima](/e/e4600.html)

[Getting to and around Kagoshima](/e/e4604.html)
[See access info](/e/e4604.html)