---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4182.html
title: Amakashi Hill
description: Visitor guide for Amakashi Hill, a great lookout point for the Asuka region and perhaps the former residence of the Soga clan.
keywords: amakashi, hill, asuka, view, lookout, point, Soga, residence
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 403
char_count: 2985
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:06:20
---

The view from Amakashi Hill, with Mount Unebi to the left and Mount Miminashi to the right

Amakashi Hill (甘樫丘, Amakashi no Oka) lies in the middle of the [Asuka region](e4175.html) and is one of the best places to view the surroundings. Most prominent are the three **Yamato mountains**, which are praised in the famous [Manyoshu](e4181.html) collection of poetry. From the hill's peak, Mount Unebi is to the west, just behind [Kashihara Shrine](e4183.html), Mount Miminashi is to the north and Mount Amanokagu is to the east. Many of Asuka's other attractions can also be recognized from the 150 meter lookout point.

In addition to its view, the hill also has an interesting history of its own. It is believed that the residence of Soga Emishi and his son Soga Iruka was located on the hill. The Soga clan were the dominant political power during most of the [Asuka Period](e2131.html) (528-710). When Soga Iruka was assassinated in 645, the clan's political domination came to an end and the Japanese political landscape changed dramatically. The former site of the imperial palace, where the assassination took place, is also visible from the hill. It is now covered by rice fields.

The view from Amakashi Hill onto Asuka Town and the former site of an imperial palace

Amakashi Hill is located beside the Asuka Daibutsu bus stop, which can be reached on the Kame Loop Bus from Kashiharajingu-mae Station (22 minutes, 290 yen, one bus per hour). The hill can also be reached by rental [bicycle](e2210.html) in about 15 minutes from Kashiharajingu-mae Station.

[How to get to and around Asuka](e4176.html)