---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4154.html
title: Yoshimizu Shrine
description: Visitor guide for Yoshimizu Jinja, a Shinto shrine in Yoshino, Japan.
keywords: yoshimizu, shrine, jinja, yoshino, yoshinoyama
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 334
char_count: 2634
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:10:28
---

Yoshimizu Shrine (吉水神社, Yoshimizu Jinja) in the Naka Senbon area of [Mount Yoshino](e4152.html), has a long and storied past. Originally founded in the 8th century as a temple, it served as the living quarters for practitioners of Shugendo mountain worship. The temple gave refuge to several prominent historical personalities over the years starting with [Minamoto Yoshitsune](e2132.html) who fled from his brother Yoritomo in the 12th century.

In the 14th century the shrine served as the temporary seat of [Emperor Go-Daigo](e2134.html), after he established a competing imperial court (the Southern Court) at [Yoshino](e4150.html), which effectively made the shrine an Imperial Palace. Emperor Go-Daigo continues to be enshrined here to this day. Furthermore, in the 16th century Yoshimizu Temple played host to [Toyotomi Hideyoshi](e2123.html), who held some of his famous [hanami](e2011_how.html) parties here.

Eventually converted to a shrine during the [Meiji Period](e2130.html)'s separation of [Buddhism](e2055.html) and [Shinto](e2056.html), Yoshimizu Shrine now exhibits various treasures in its main building, including historic documents, arms, paintings and other art objects. Yoshimizu Shrine also remains a popular place for [cherry blossom viewing](e2011.html) and offers some great, unobstructed views of Yoshino's cherry tree covered mountain slopes.

The view from Yoshimizu Shrine

Yoshimizu Shrine is a 20 minute walk from the upper station of the Yoshino Ropeway (Yoshinoyama Station).

[How to get to and around Yoshino](e4151.html)