---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4878.html
title: Moji Port (Mojiko)
description: Visitor guide for Moji Port, a waterfront area that retains a certain atmosphere of past decades.
keywords: moji, port, mojiko, retro, kitakyushu
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 485
char_count: 3453
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:08:11
---

Mojiko Station

Moji was one of five cities that merged to form [Kitakyushu City](e4875.html) in 1963. It is the closest municipality of [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html) in proximity to Honshu. Moji Port (門司港, Mojikō) has been prominent as an international trading port since the late 19th century. Today, although main port activities have been moved to a newer location at Shin-Moji Port, Moji Port retains its relevance as a tourist destination with a flavor from the past thanks to several well preserved Western-style buildings from the [Meiji](e2130.html) and [Taisho](e2129.html) periods.

One of these buildings is **Mojiko Station**, one of Japan's oldest and most atmospheric train stations. A leisurely walk from the station takes you to the several other historic buildings located in an attractive waterfront area. These buildings were initially constructed about a century ago to accommodate and facilitate flourishing businesses thanks to the thriving trade with the Asian continent. Some of them are open to visitors and house the likes of libraries, cafes, restaurants and museums.

Promenade by the sea

An eye-catching red brick building is the former **Moji Customs Building**; it now has an art gallery which is free to enter. It is also hard to miss the area's tallest building by far, at which the **Mojiko Retro Observation Room** is located 103 meters above ground, and provides good views of the port and the city of [Shimonoseki](e6140.html) across the Kanmon Strait. The history of the strait is commemorated at the **Kanmon Kaikyo Museum**, a modern museum along the water.

A romantic walk along the promenade by the sea takes you to **Kaikyo Plaza**, a shopping facility where souvenirs and produce are on sale. Banana products are a specialty of Moji Port, which traditionally has handled imported bananas from Southeast Asia. Do also try the local delicacy "Yaki Curry", a baked [curry](e2351.html) and [rice](e2043.html) dish, that is available at multiple restaurants in the area.

Yaki Curry

Mojiko and Kokura are connected by the JR Kagoshima Line (13 minutes, 340 yen, frequent trains). Mojiko Station and the various sights around Moji Port are located within an area spanning about two kilometers along the bay. The area is conveniently explorable on foot.

[How to get to and around Kitakyushu](e4876.html)