---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4307.html
title: Ago Bay
description: Visitor guide for Ago Bay (Agowan), a bay at the southern tip of the Shima Peninsula, famous for pearl cultivation.
keywords: ago, bay, agowan, pearl, pearls, cultivation, cultivated, shima
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 1821
char_count: 11801
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:11:29
---

Ago Bay (英虞湾, Agowan) is a scenic, island dotted bay with a rugged coastline, located at the southern tip of the [Shima Peninsula](e4310.html). The bay is famous for [pearl cultivation](e4306.html) with many oyster rafts floating in the water. The art of pearl cultivation was first mastered by [Mikimoto Kokichi](e4306.html) in 1893. Mikimoto was born and grew up on the Shima Peninsula, not far from Ago Bay.

One hour sightseeing boat cruises of Ago Bay are offered on a large pirate ship, which make a round course in the deeper waters of the bay. Passengers have the option between regular seats and seats in a special room with classic interior at a small surcharge.

Pirate sightseeing ship

Transport hub and departure point of sightseeing boat cruises is Kashikojima, the largest island in Ago Bay. The boat piers and Kashikojima Station, the terminal station of the Kintetsu Railway Line, are all located within walking distance of each other on Kashikojima.

One of the best places to get a view of Ago Bay is the Yokoyama Observation Deck on the slopes of Mount Yokoyama. Visitors can enjoy panoramic views of the southern islands dotting the bay from 200 meters above sea level. Travelers without their own [car](e2024.html) can reach the observation deck in a 30-45 minute walk (one way) from Shima-Yokoyama Station.

Yokoyama Observation Deck

Kashikojima Station is the final station of the Kintetsu Shima Line, providing convenient access to Ago Bay. From Iseshi Station, the trip to Kashikojima takes 45 minutes and costs 1340 yen by [limited express](e2016.html#category) train or 70 minutes and 820 yen by [local train](e2016.html#category). From Toba, it takes 30 minutes and costs 1080 yen by limited express train or 40 minutes and 560 yen by local train. Limited express trains connect all the way to [Nagoya](e2155.html), [Osaka](e2157.html) and [Kyoto](e2158.html).

[How to get to and around the Shima Peninsula](e4304.html)