---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4656.html
title: Around the Island
description: Visitor guide for various minor attractions around Yakushima Island.
keywords: yakushima, island
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 575
char_count: 4083
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:25:55
---

Most people come to [Yakushima](e4650.html) to see the cedar forests; however, there are a lot of things to see and do on the island besides [hiking](e2427.html). There are a number of other outdoor attractions as well, including nature watching, [snorkeling](e2424_snorkeling.html), [scuba diving](e2424_diving.html), waterfalls, museums and [onsen](e2292.html).

One of the best ways to see the island is to take a [drive](e2024.html) around its perimeter. The mountainous slopes and cliffs along parts of the coast offer some excellent scenery, especially along the western coast where the [UNESCO World Heritage Site](e2251.html) extends to the sea and the roads are too narrow and winding for the [buses](e2015.html) to run.

Whether hiking or driving, you are likely to encounter wild Yakushima deer and monkeys on the island, locally referred to as Yakushika and Yakuzaru. As in all [national parks](e2325.html), do not feed or approach the animals.

Yakushima Deer (Yakushika) on the left, Yakushima Monkey (Yakuzaru) on the right

In June and July sea turtles come ashore on the western [beaches](e2461.html) of [Yakushima](e4650.html) to lay their eggs. Special precautions are required to see them, and guided tours are available.

There are also a few [hot springs](e2292.html) around the island. Of interest are the coastal baths of Hirauchi Kaichu Onsen in the south near Yudomari. Its baths are notable as they are usually underwater except for a few hours before and after low tide.

### Some attractions around Yakushima

* 

  Yakusugi Museum (Yakusugi Shizenkan)

  5 minutes by car from Anbo Port  
  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: 1st Tuesday of every month, December 29 to January 1  
  Admission: 600 yen

  The Yakusugi Museum displays the ecology, history and industry of the forests on Yakushima. Here you can learn about the cedar trees, the products that come from them and how they were harvested.
* 

  Environmental Culture Village Center

  5 minute walk from Miyanoura Port  
  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Mondays (or the next day if Monday is a [national holiday](e2062.html)), December 28 to January 1. Open every day during [Golden Week](e2282.html) and from mid July through August.  
  Admission: 530 yen

  The Environmental Culture Village Center teaches about the nature and culture of Yakushima. Its main attraction is a film about the island shown on a 14 meter high screen.
* 

  Okonotaki Waterfall

  Just off the main road

  Okonotaki is a spectacular waterfall on the west side of Yakushima Island. The 88 meter high waterfall is considered one of Japan's 100 best and can be viewed from just a few steps from the parking area.
* 

  Senpironotaki Waterfall

  10 minute drive from the main road

  Senpironotaki is another of Yakushima's larger waterfalls which is located near the southern coast of the island. There is a viewpoint overlooking the falls which is a short walk from the parking area.

[How to get to and around Yakushima Island](e4651.html)