---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4441.html
title: How to get to and around the Goto Islands\: Access, Transportation and Orientation
description: How to get to and around the Goto Islands.
keywords: japan, goto, islands, island, fukue, nakadori, arikawa, narao, access, orientation, fly, plane, ferry, boat, transportation
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 422
char_count: 3016
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:08:36
---

### How to get to the Goto Islands

Located about 100 kilometers off the mainland, the [Goto Islands](e4440.html) can be reached by [ferry](e2355.html) from [Nagasaki](e2162.html) and Sasebo, or by [flights](e2365.html) from Nagasaki and [Fukuoka](e2161.html):

#### By ferry

There are multiple [high-speed boat and car ferry](e2355.html) lines from [Nagasaki](e2162.html) and Sasebo to the Goto Islands. Below is a list of the most relevant ones:

* **Nagasaki - Fukue - Narao - Nagasaki**  
  3-7 high-speed boats and car ferries per day
* **Nagasaki - Arikawa**  
  2-3 high-speed boats per day
* **Nagasaki - Tainoura**  
  2 high-speed boats per day
* **Sasebo - Arikawa**  
  4 high-speed boats and car ferries per day

Note that ferry crossings may be cancelled in bad weather, with high-speed boats more prone to cancellation due to high waves than the car ferries.

#### By air

Oriental Air Bridge operates 2-3 [flights](e2365.html) per day each from [Nagasaki](e2162.html) and [Fukuoka](e2161.html) to Fukue Airport. The journey takes around 40 minutes and cost around 8,000 to 19,000 yen one way.

Alighting the small plane after arriving at Fukue Airport

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](/e/e2196.html).

#### How to travel between the islands

Among the five main islands, [Nakadori and Wakamatsu](e4443.html) are the only ones connected by bridge. There is a dense network of [ferry](e2355.html) routes connecting various ports on the different islands with each other, including a route that connects [Fukue Island](e4442.html) (Fukue Port) with [Nakadori Island](e4443.html) (Narao Port) multiple times per day (30 minutes, around 2800 yen by high-speed boat or 80 minutes, around 1000 yen by car ferry).

Other islands like Naru (Naru Port) and Hisaka (Tanoura Port) are connected less frequently (note that only the main routes are shown on the map above). Tickets for ferries can usually be bought the day of travel unless traveling with a [car](e2024.html) in which case it is recommended to book in advance.

#### How to travel around each island

See the islands' individual pages for details on how to get around:

* [Fukue Island](e4442.html)
* [Nakadori and Wakamatsu Islands](e4443.html)

One of the high-speed boats that connect the islands