---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4501.html
title: Kumamoto Castle
description: Visitor guide for Kumamoto Castle (Kumamotojo), one of Japan's most impressive castles.
keywords: kumamoto, castle, kumamotojo
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 2119
char_count: 14280
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:50:17
---

Construction Notice:

Kumamoto Castle suffered serious damage in the [earthquakes of April 2016](/news/0035.html). Many roof tiles fell, foundations were damaged, walls crumbled and entire structures collapsed. Five years later, in 2021, the interior of the castle's main keep was reopened to the public, but several other parts of the grounds, including the castle palace, remain off-limit. Major repair works are expected to continue on the castle grounds until around 2042.

Kumamoto Castle (熊本城, Kumamotojō) is one of the most impressive [castles](e2296.html) in Japan. With large castle grounds and a variety of buildings, Kumamoto Castle offers its visitors one of the most complete castle experiences in Japan. However, the castle grounds suffered widespread damage in the [earthquakes of April 2016](/news/0035.html), and repair works will continue for many years.

Only a few of Kumamoto Castle's structures have survived the post-feudal era intact. The castle keep and most other buildings are modern reconstructions, but the reconstructions are mostly of a high quality. With about 800 cherry trees, the castle becomes a popular [cherry blossom spot](e2011.html) usually in late March and early April.

Large castle walls and cherry trees (before the earthquake)

The construction of Kumamoto Castle in the early 1600s took seven years. It was designed by Kato Kiyomasa, the local feudal lord (daimyo), who was well known for his castle design skills. His fortifications were highly regarded for their strategic effectiveness. Less than 50 years after its construction, the castle and surrounding area were taken from the Kato clan and given to the Hosokawa clan which ruled the area from Kumamoto Castle for the next two centuries.

A few years after the [Meiji Restoration](e2130.html) (1868), the castle played a pivotal role in the Seinan Civil War, during which the famous samurai Saigo Takamori led an uprising in [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html) against the new government. Kumamoto Castle was the main garrison of government troops in Kyushu, and Saigo attacked the castle in early 1877. Despite being outnumbered, the government forces were able to withstand Saigo's two-month siege, forcing the rebel forces to retreat.

Damaged Kumamoto Castle (as of November 2016)

Unfortunately, the original **castle keep** burnt down in 1877 just before the siege. In 1960 a ferro-concrete reconstruction was built that recreates the building's outward appearance. Inside the building, however, there is a modern museum with displays on the castle's history and construction rather than a reconstruction of the original interior. The castle keep consists of two towers, a main tower with six stories and a smaller tower with four stories. Nice views of the castle grounds and surrounding city can be enjoyed from the top floor of the main tower.

In order not to interfere with repair works on the castle grounds, tourists approach the castle keep via an elevated walkway for the time being. The walkway is about 300 meters long and allows for views of the castle from interesting perspectives.

The elevated walkway leading to the castle keep

A unique attraction of Kumamoto Castle is the reconstructed **Honmaru Goten Palace** (currently closed due to the earthquake; scheduled to reopen by 2033), which was created in celebration of the castle's 400th anniversary and was opened to the public in 2008. The original palace building was much larger and included the living quarters of the daimyo, but unfortunately it was one of the many buildings destroyed during the Seinan Civil War.

The current palace building was constructed with original materials and methods. Inside, visitors can see accurate recreations of the opulent surroundings in which the daimyo would receive guests. There are also interesting displays regarding the building's reconstruction.

Besides the castle keep and palace building, Kumamoto Castle features impressive stone walls and moats, as well as several turrets and storehouses, many of which can be entered (currently closed due to the earthquake). The **Uto Turret** is one of the few structures that survived the siege of 1877, and dates back to the period of the castle's construction. There is also a unique underground passage that leads to the palace building and a [former residence](e4504.html) of the Hosokawa clan about 500 meters northwest of the main castle grounds.

An extravagant room in the Honmaru Goten Palace (currently not accessible to tourists)

Kumamoto Castle is located in the center of Kumamoto City, a 15 minute, 180 yen tram ride from JR Kumamoto Station. Get off at Kumamotojo-mae tram stop. You can also walk from Kumamoto Station to the castle in about 30-45 minutes.

[How to get to and around Kumamoto](e4503.html)