---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4626.html
title: How to get to and around Kirishima\: Access, Orientation and Transportation
description: Orientation and transportation around the Kirishima Mountains.
keywords: kirishima, access, orientation, transportation, directions, how, travel, bus
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 486
char_count: 3820
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:11:02
---

### How to get to Kirishima

#### From Kagoshima

From [Kagoshima](e4600.html) ([how to get to Kagoshima](e4604.html)), take a [local](e2016.html#category) (1 hour, around 1000 yen, departures every 2 hours) or [limited express](e2016.html#category) train (50 minutes, around 2000 yen, departures every 1-2 hours) to Kirishima Jingu Station, from where there are [buses](e2015.html) into [Kirishima National Park](e4625.html).

#### From Kagoshima Airport

Direct [buses](e2015.html) operate every 1-4 hours from Kagoshima Airport via [Maruo Onsen](e4628.html) (35 minutes, 770 yen) to the Kirishima Iwasaki Hotel (40 minutes, 850 yen). Alternatively, [rental cars](e2024.html) are available at the airport.

#### From Miyazaki

From Miyazaki, take a [local](e2016.html#category) train (2.5 hours, 1730 yen, hourly connections via Miyakonojo) or [limited express](e2016.html#category) train (80 minutes, about 3000-3500 yen, departures every 1-2 hours) to Kirishima Jingu Station, from where there are [buses](e2015.html) into [Kirishima National Park](e4625.html). Alternatively get off at Miyakonojo Station (80 minutes, 950 yen by hourly local trains; or 45 minutes, about 2000 yen by hourly limited express trains), from where buses depart to [Kirishima Shrine](e4630.html) (70 minutes, 1260 yen, departures every 2-5 hours).

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](/e/e2196.html).

[Kirishima](e4625.html) is a volcanic [mountain range](e4629.html) that sits on the border between [Miyazaki](/list/e1245.html) and [Kagoshima Prefectures](/list/e1246.html) with Miyazaki to the northeast and Kagoshima to the southwest. The two most prominent resort towns in the are are [Ebino Kogen](e4627.html) in Miyazaki and [Kirishima Onsen](e4628.html) in Kagoshima.

It is easiest to explore Kirishima by [rental car](e2024.html) due to the infrequent and inconvenient public transportation system that is available within the park. Rental car outlets are available in Miyazaki, Kagoshima and at Kagoshima Airport.

Bus service around Kirishima deteriorated terribly during the coronavirus pandemic and is now not really a practical option for tourists anymore. Service is particularly bad on weekends and [public holidays](e2062.html). [Kirishima Onsen](e4628.html) is served by infrequent [buses](e2015.html) departing from JR Kirishima Jingu Station (30 minutes, 580 yen, departures every 1-4 hours), JR Kirishima Onsen Station (25 minutes, 530 yen, departures every 2-5 hours; no service on weekends and [public holidays](e2062.html)) and Kagoshima Airport (35 minutes, 770 yen, departures every 1-4 hours).

[Ebino Kogen](e4627.html) is not well served by public transportation. There are three buses from Maruo Onsen to Ebino Kogen per day that continue to the Takachiho-gawara Visitor Center afterwards. In the opposite direction, there are only two buses per day.

Bus network around Kirishima: