---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4412.html
title: Mount Inasayama
description: Visitor guide for Mount Inasayama in Nagasaki, which offers one of Japan's top 3 night views.
keywords: inasayama, inasa, nagasaki, mountain, mountains, night, view, views
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 1911
char_count: 12669
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:26:34
---

Mount Inasa (稲佐山, Inasayama) is a 333 meter high mountain close to [Nagasaki](e2162.html)'s city center.

The summit can be reached by ropeway, [bus](e2015.html) or [car](e2024.html) and offers great views over the city. In fact, the night views from Mount Inasa are ranked among Japan's three best night views besides the views from [Mount Hakodate](e5354.html) and [Mount Rokko](e3557.html). Several television and radio antennas and an observation deck with restaurant are located at the summit.

The view from Mount Inasayama by day

### By ropeway

The ropeway ride takes five minutes and costs 730 yen (one way) or 1250 yen (round trip). Gondolas depart every 15-20 minutes from 9:00 to 22:00. There are occasional periods when the ropeway is not running due to maintenance (most recently from June 9 to July 4, 2025). The ropeway's lower station can be reached in five minutes from Nagasaki Station by frequently operating Nagasaki Bus (160 yen one way), by [taxi](e2021.html), or in a 15 minute walk from the Takaramachi tram stop. In the evenings, a free shuttle bus operates between selected hotels, Nagasaki Station and the lower ropeway station.

### By car or taxi

The [car](e2024.html) ride from Nagasaki Station takes roughly 15 minutes, while a [taxi](e2021.html) ride costs just over 2000 yen one way. Parking is available around the summit of Mount Inasa. A small, paid parking lot is located at the summit but gets closed to regular cars in the evenings on weekends, [public holidays](e2062.html) and other busy days. A larger, free parking lot is found a 15-20 minute walk down from the summit. The "Slope Car", a monorail-like type of transport, runs between the free parking lot and the summit (9:00 to 22:00, 300 yen one way, 500 yen round trip).

### By bus

Nagasaki Bus runs 1-2 buses per hour between Nagasaki Station and Inasayama bus stop (15 minutes, 190 yen one way), but note that it is still a 15-20 minute climb from the bus stop to the summit. Alternatively, the "Slope Car", a monorail-like type of transport, runs between the bus stop and the summit (9:00 to 22:00, 300 yen one way, 500 yen round trip).

[How to get to and around Nagasaki](e4410.html)