---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4027.html
title: Grand Front Osaka
description: Visitor guide for Grand Front Osaka, a commercial complex next to Osaka Station.
keywords: grand, front, osaka, umekita
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 2819
char_count: 19335
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:52:48
---

Grand Front Osaka (グランフロント大阪) is a large commercial complex north of [JR Osaka Station](e4020.html) in the [Umeda district](e4009.html) that was opened in 2013. It consists of a wide variety of [shops](e4013.html) and [restaurants](e4022.html), an [Intercontinental hotel](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/intercontinental-osaka.html?aid=371183), office and event space, as well as a residential tower. Elevated walkways connect the multiple buildings of Grand Front Osaka to each other and to Osaka Station.

Grand Front Osaka is the first part of the Umekita (short for "Umeda North") redevelopment project to transform a large former freight railyard north of Osaka Station into a new city district. The rest of the project, [Grand Green Osaka](/news/osaka-station-umekita.html), is currently being opened step-by-step at the adjacent site and expected to be fully completed in spring 2027.

Entrance to the South Building

Grand Front Osaka consists of a South Building, North Building, event hall and residential tower:

The **South Building** has one skyscraper on top and is connected to [Osaka Station](e4020.html) by an elevated walkway. It is the first building you see coming from the station and houses mainly fashion and interior shops on its first six floors and restaurants with regional cuisine from across the country on the next three floors. The skyscraper on top is occupied by offices.

Knowledge Capital in the North Building

From the 2nd floor of the South Building, a walkway leads to the **North Building** which has two skyscrapers built on top. In addition to some more shopping and dining options, the core facility here is the Knowledge Capital, established to create new products and services through cutting edge technology and information. Visitors can learn more about these products and services at a variety of showrooms and shops. The skyscrapers on top house the [Intercontinental Hotel Osaka](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/intercontinental-osaka.html?aid=371183) and more office space.

Completing the Grand Front Osaka complex is a 48-story residential tower behind the North Building and an event hall in front of the South Building. One of the goals of the redevelopment plans include incorporating more open green spaces. As such, Grand Front Osaka has several rooftop terrace gardens, a lush green garden on street level, and trees planted along the perimeter of the complex.

Rooftop terrace garden

Grand Front Osaka is located directly north of [JR Osaka Station](e4020.html).

[How to get to and around Osaka](e4006.html)