---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4875.html
title: Kitakyushu Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Kitakyushu City in Fukuoka Prefecture.
keywords: kitakyushu, city, kokura, moji, guide, travel, tourism, sightseeing, tourist, trip, visit, visitor
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 324
char_count: 2700
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:47:13
---

Kitakyushu (北九州, Kitakyūshū, lit. "North Kyushu") is the northernmost city of [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html) and has been an important hub for both land and marine traffic since olden times. It is the gateway between Honshu and Kyushu, as well as an important port for international trade. The city was formed in 1963 with the merger of five independent cities, namely, Kokura, Moji, Yahata, Tobata and Wakamatsu. It is very much an industrial city, contributing to the manufacturing capabilities of Japan.

During the [Meiji Period](e2130.html) (1868-1912), the government recognized the geographical advantages of the Kitakyushu area, and had port facilities and railroad infrastructure rapidly built here, leading to further development of commerce and industry. Thanks to the preservation of multiple old buildings from that era, a certain flair of past decades can still be experienced around [Moji Port](e4878.html).

* [](/e/e4881.html)

  1

  Flowers

  [Kawachi Wisteria Garden•](/e/e4881.html)

  Garden with spectacular flower tunnels.

  4.0

  

  27
* [](/e/e4883.html)

  2

  Museum

  [TOTO Museum](/e/e4883.html)

  Displaying the evolution of toilets.

  4.4

  

  22
* [](/e/e4878.html)

  3

  Historic Site

  [Moji Port](/e/e4878.html)

  Waterfront area with a nostalgic atmosphere.

  3.4

  

  188
* [](/e/e4879.html)

  4

  Castle

  [Kokura Castle](/e/e4879.html)

  Reconstructed castle not far from the station.

  3.1

  

  93
* [](/e/e4882.html)

  5

  Industry/Commerce

  [Yawata Steel Works](/e/e4882.html)

  The city's most significant industrial heritage.

  2.9

  

  16
* [](/e/e4880.html)

  6

  Manga and Anime

  [Kitakyushu Manga Museum](/e/e4880.html)

  Museum about manga next to Kokura Station.

  2.8

  

  20
* [](/e/e4884.html)

  7

  Shopping

  [Tanga Market](/e/e4884.html)

  Local market street in the city center.

  11

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Kitakyushu](/e/e4875.html)

[Getting to and around Kitakyushu](/e/e4876.html)
[See access info](/e/e4876.html)