---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4807.html
title: Cherry blossom spots in Fukuoka (Fukuoka Hanami Spots)
description: A list of popular hanami (cherry blossom viewing) spots in Fukuoka.
keywords: fukuoka, sakura, cherry, blossom, blossoms, hanami, spot, spots
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 2217
char_count: 15108
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:04:24
---

Below is a list of [Fukuoka](e2161.html)'s most popular spots for cherry blossom viewing ([hanami](e2011.html)), including the typical timing for best viewing in the average year and japan-guide.com ratings. See also our nationwide list of [famous cherry blossom spots](e2011_where.html).

* 

  [Fukuoka Castle (Maizuru Park)•](e4806.html)

  Late March to early April

  5-10 minute walk south of Ohori Koen Station  
  Admission: Free (partially paid during the cherry blossom illuminations)  
  Illumination 2025: 3/26 to 4/6, 18:00 to 22:00, 600 yen per area or 1500 yen for all three areas; e-tickets are available through [kkday](https://www.kkday.com/en/product/163885?cid=19746)

  About a thousand cherry trees are planted in Maizuru Park among the ruins of [Fukuoka Castle](e4806.html). The spacious park provides lots of green space for hanami parties. During the cherry blossom festival, three areas are lit up during the evenings.
* 

  [Uminonakamichi Seaside Park•](e4810.html)

  Late March to early April

  JR Uminonakamichi Station  
  9:30 to 17:30, 450 yen

  About 2000 cherry trees are planted around the spacious grounds of [Uminonakamichi Seaside Park](e4810.html) which lies on a long, narrow peninsula north of the city center. Because of the park's size, rental bicycles (600 yen for three hours) are the recommended means to get around.
* 

  Nishi Park (Nishi Koen)

  Late March to early April

  10-15 minute walk north of Ohori Koen Station  
  Admission: Free

  Nishi Park is one of Japan's 100 best cherry blossom spots. Over a thousand cherry trees are located on the hillside park, which is also the site of Terumo Shrine, the family shrine of Fukuoka's former feudal lords. The park provides green space for picnics.
* 

  Atago Shrine

  Late March to early April

  10 minute walk east of Meinohama Station  
  Admission: Free

  Atago Shrine stands on a hill with spectacular views over Fukuoka and Hakata Bay. Hundreds of cherry trees decorate the shrine's steep approach and hilltop location. Trees are lit up in the evenings.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

[How to get to and around Fukuoka](e4802.html)