---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4451.html
title: How to get to and around the Shimabara Peninsula\: Access, Transportation and Orientation
description: Access, orientation and transportation in Shimabara.
keywords: shimabara, peninsula, nagasaki, unzen, access, orientation, directions, trains, buses, ferry, transportation, how, to, get,
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 698
char_count: 5176
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:08:49
---

Take a JR train from [Nagasaki](e2162.html) to Isahaya Station (8 minutes, 1430 yen for an unreserved seat on the [Nishikyushu Shinkansen](e2018_nishikyushu.html) or 30 minutes, 560 yen by local train). At Isahaya Station change to the Shimabara Railway (Shimatetsu) to Shimabara Station (70 minutes, 1460 yen, 1-2 trains/hour) or a Shimatetsu bus to [Unzen Onsen](e4453.html) (90 minutes, 1400 yen, hourly). The trains from Nagasaki to Isahaya are fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), but the Shimatetsu trains and buses are not.

Alternatively, Nagasaki Kenei Bus operates infrequent direct buses between the Nagasaki Bus Terminal (across the street from Nagasaki Station, bus stop #3) and the [Unzen Onsen](e4453.html) Visitor Center. The one way trip takes about 100 minutes and costs 1850 yen.

From Nagasaki Airport, take a Nagasaki Kenei bus from the airport to Isahaya Station (45 minutes, 640 yen, 1-2 buses/hour) and change to the Shimabara Railway (Shimatetsu) to Shimabara Station (70 minutes, 1460 yen, 1-2 trains/hour) or a Shimatetsu bus to [Unzen Onsen](e4453.html) (90 minutes, 1400 yen, hourly).

Take a bus from central [Kumamoto](e4500.html) (Kumamoto Station or Sakuramachi Bus Terminal) to Kumamoto Port (20-30 minutes, 540-610 yen, timed with ferry departures/arrivals) and then a ferry across the Ariake Bay to Shimabara Port.

There are two [ferry](e2355.html) companies: Kumamoto Ferry operates high speed ferries (30 minutes, 1500 yen, every two hours) while Kyusho Ferry operates regular ferries (60 minutes, 1180 yen, every 60-90 minutes). Taking a regular sized car onto the ferry costs 3500-4500 yen one way. Online reservations for the high speed ferries can be made through [Willer](https://willer-travel.com/en/ferry/carrier/126.html?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184).

Shimabara Port lies a little outside the city center. It is a five minute walk to Shimabarako Station from where you can take a train to Shimabara Station (10 minutes, 150 yen, 1-2 trains/hour). Alternatively, take a Shimatetsu bus to Shimabara Station (10 minutes, 170 yen, hourly) or directly to [Unzen Onsen](e4453.html) (40 minutes, 760 yen, hourly).

[Book Now](https://willer-travel.com/en/ferry/carrier/126.html?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184)

Nishitetsu operates a few direct [highway buses](e2366.html) between the Hakata Bus Terminal in [Fukuoka](e2161.html) (next to Hakata Station) and Shimabara Station (3.5 hours, 3400 yen one way).

Alternatively, take a "Relay Kamome" [limited express](e2016.html) train and the [Nishikyushu Shinkansen](e2018_nishikyushu.html) from [Fukuoka](e2161.html)'s Hakata Station via [Takeo Onsen](e8385.html) (90 minutes, about 5000 yen one way) to Isahaya and change to the Shimabara Railway (Shimatetsu) to Shimabara Station (70 minutes, 1460 yen, 1-2 trains/hour) or a Shimatetsu bus to [Unzen Onsen](e4453.html) (90 minutes, 1400 yen, hourly). The trains between Hakata and Isahaya are fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), but the Shimatetsu trains and buses are not.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

[Mount Unzen](e4452.html) and [Unzen Onsen](e4453.html) are at the center of the peninsula, while Shimabara City lies at its eastern coast. Shimabara Station in central Shimabara City serves as the transportation hub of the peninsula with bus connections to most of the neighboring sights; however, [Unzen Onsen](e4453.html) can also be accessed independently by direct buses from [Nagasaki](e2162.html) and [Fukuoka](e2161.html).

Central Shimabara City is walkable with most of its [sights](e4454.html) within a short distance of Shimabara Station. The [disaster-related sites](e4455.html) and [Unzen Onsen](e4453.html) can be reached by frequent buses from Shimabara Station. The [Sun Q Pass](e2357_014.html) covers all buses into and around the Shimabara Peninsula, as well as the Kumamoto Ferry between Kumamoto and Shimabara ports.

A [rental car](e2024.html) is a recommended option for visiting the Shimabara Peninsula and is necessary to visit some of the less accessible sights. Rental outlets can be found around Shimabara Gaiko Station, Isahaya Station, Nagasaki Airport, Nagasaki Station and [Fukuoka](e2161.html)'s Hakata Station.