---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4353.html
title: Kyoto to Iga Ueno\: How to get to and around Iga Ueno
description: How to get to and around Iga Ueno.
keywords: iga, ueno, igaueno, orientation, transportation, access, directions, get there, train, bus
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 422
char_count: 2877
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:21:36
---

From/To:

KyotoOsakaTokyoNagoya

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)(except 280 yen for Iga Railway)

Take the JR Biwako/Tokaido Line from [Kyoto](e2158.html) to Kusatsu (25 minutes), then the JR Kusatsu Line to Tsuge (50 minutes) and then the JR Kansai Line to Iga-Ueno (15 minutes). At Iga-Ueno Station, change to the Iga Railway to Ueno-shi (5 minutes). The entire trip takes just under two hours and costs 1450 yen (1170 yen for JR and 280 yen for the Iga Railway). There is generally one connection per hour. The trip is covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), the [JR Kansai Area Pass](e2361_03.html) and the [JR Kansai Wide Area Pass](e2361_08.html) except for the section of the Iga Railway.

Access by Kintetsu Railway is slower and more expensive than by JR, but it is fully covered by the [Kintetsu Rail Pass](e2357_006.html) (except possible limited express fees) and as far as Iga-Kanbe by the [Kansai Railway Pass](e2357_005.html). From [Kyoto](e2158.html), take an express train along the Kintetsu Kashihara Line to Yamato-Yagi (60 minutes) and transfer to the Kintetsu Osaka Line to Iga-Kanbe (30 minutes). From Iga-Kanbe take the Iga Railway to Ueno-shi (25 minutes). The entire trip takes about 2.5 hours and costs 2070 yen. There is generally one connection per hour.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

[Iga Ueno](e4350.html)'s most centrally located [railway](e2019.html) station is **Uenoshi Station** along the Iga Railway Line (formerly known as Kintetsu Iga Line). From the closest JR station, Iga Ueno Station, Uenoshi Station can be reached in a seven minute train ride along the Iga Railway Line (280 yen one way). All of Iga Ueno's major attractions are located in and around Ueno Park, a short walk north of Uenoshi Station.