---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4017.html
title: Osaka Museum Guide
description: An list of some of Osaka's noteworthy museums.
keywords: osaka, museum, museums, guide, art, history
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 3130
char_count: 21904
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:52:22
---

[Osaka](e2157.html) has many [museums](e2428.html), art galleries and a world-class [aquarium](e2425.html).

Visitors planning to see multiple museums around Osaka and [Kyoto](e3962.html) should consider the **Kansai Grutto Pass**. The pass provides free or discounted admission to around 50 museums and galleries in the [Kansai Region](/list/e1105.html) and costs 1400 yen. It is available annually from early April through January of the following year and is valid for one entry to each participating museum. The pass expires three months from its first use or on March 31, whichever occurs first.

### History museums

* 

  [Osaka Museum of History](e4014.html)

  Tanimachi Yonchome Station across [Osaka Castle](e4000.html)  
  Hours: 9:30 to 17:00 (until 20:00 on some Fridays)  
  Admission ends 30 minutes before closing  
  Admission: 600 yen

  Located adjacent to [Osaka Castle Park](e4000.html), the [Osaka Museum of History](e4014.html) educates visitors about the history of Osaka. The museum's displays are equipped with multilingual explanations.
* 

  Osaka Museum of Housing and Living

  At the northern end of the [Tenjinbashi-suji Shopping Street](e4024.html)  
  Hours: 10:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Tuesdays (except [national holidays](e2062.html)) and from Dec 29 to Jan 2  
  Admission: 600 yen

  The unique Osaka Museum of Housing and Living presents a glimpse of the streets of Osaka during the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868) through recreated houses which visitors can enter.
* 

  Peace Osaka

  Directly south of [Osaka Castle Park](e4000.html)  
  Hours: 9:30 to 17:00 (entrance until 16:30)  
  Closed: Mondays and the day following [holidays](e2276.html) (except Tuesdays and weekends)  
  The last day of each month and December 28 to January 4  
  Admission: 250 yen

  Peace Osaka explores Japan's experiences during World War II with an emphasis on Osaka. English language information is rather limited.

### Science museums

* 

  [Osaka Science Museum](e4015.html)

  Higobashi Station on the Yotsubashi Subway Line  
  Hours: 9:30 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Mondays (or following day if Mon is a [national holiday](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html)  
  Admission: 400 yen (separate fee for planetarium)

  The child-friendly [Osaka Science Museum](e4015.html) is a fun, four story building filled with interactive displays about the universe, chemistry, electricity and energy. The museum is located on Nakanoshima Island.

### Art museums

* 

  [National Museum of Art, Osaka](e4016.html)

  Higobashi Station on the Yotsubashi Subway Line  
  Hours: 10:00 to 17:00 (until 20:00 on Fridays and Saturdays)  
  Closed: Mondays (or following day if Mon is a [national holiday](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html)  
  Admission: 430 yen (collection), fees vary for special exhibitions

  Osaka's [National Museum of Art](e4016.html) was moved to its new location on Nakanoshima Island in 2007. The museum displays Japanese and foreign contemporary art on a rotating schedule.

### Aquariums

* 

  [Osaka Aquarium (Kaiyukan)](e4004.html)

  Osakako Station on the Chuo Subway Line  
  Hours: 10:00 to 20:00 (entry until 18:00), longer hours during holidays  
  Closed: Small number of irregular closing days  
  Admission: 2700 yen

  [Osaka Aquarium](e4004.html) is a world class facility located at [Tempozan Harbor Village](e4010.html). The aquarium's main attraction is its massive tank with 5,400 tons of water representing the Pacific Ocean ecosystem.

### Food and entertainment

* 

  Cup Noodles Museum Osaka Ikeda

  5 minute walk from Ikeda Station on the Hankyu Takarazuka Line  
  Hours: 9:30 to 16:30 (entry until 15:30)  
  Closed: Tuesdays (or next day if Tuesday is a [national holiday](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission: Free (making your own cup noodles costs 500 yen)

  This museum showcases the history of cup noodles with display panels about the process that goes into making instant noodles and a collection of instant noodle products by Nissin Food over the decades. Making a personalized cup of instant noodles is a popular and quick activity at the museum that does not require advance reservations. The museum is located north of central [Osaka](e2157.html) in Ikeda City where the Nissin company was originally founded by Ando Momofuku.
* 

  Osamu Tezuka Manga Museum

  10 minute walk from Takarazuka Station north of Osaka  
  Hours: 9:30 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Mondays (except holidays), December 29-31  
  Admission: 700 yen

  Known as the "God of Manga" for his pioneering efforts in the industry, Tezuka Osamu is well known for "Astro Boy" and many other [manga](e2070.html) series. After his death, a memorial museum was built in Takarazuka, the city where he grew up, a 30 minute train ride north of [Osaka](e2157.html). The museum documents the artist's life and exhibits a wide array of his work in both permanent and temporary exhibition space.

[How to get to and around Osaka](e4006.html)