---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4114.html
title: Isuien Garden
description: Visitor guide for Isuien Garden, an attractive garden in Nara that uses nearby temples and mountains as borrowed scenery.
keywords: isuien, garden, nara
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 1850
char_count: 12521
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:45:06
---

Isuien in autumn, with the borrowed scenery of the Nandaimon Gate and Mount Wakakusayama

Isuien (依水園) is an attractive [Japanese garden](e2099.html) with a variety of features, such as the use of [Todaiji Temple](e4100.html)'s Nandaimon Gate and [Mount Wakakusayama](e4113.html) as "borrowed scenery". Isuien means "garden founded on water", and the garden's name is derived from the fact that its ponds are fed by the small adjacent Yoshikigawa River. The [Yoshikien Garden](e4115.html) is located just on the other side of the river.

Isuien is divided into two parts, a front garden and a rear garden, with a number of tea houses scattered throughout. The front garden has a longer history, dating back to the mid [17th century](e2128.html). The rear garden, the larger of the two, is more recent and was built in [1899](e2130.html) by a wealthy merchant. Next to the garden and included with admission is a small museum displaying pottery, seals, mirrors and other artifacts from ancient China and Korea from the collection of the family that owns Isuien.

The front garden

Located in central Nara, a visit to Isuien Garden is easily combined with seeing other attractions such as [Todaiji Temple](e4100.html) and [Kofukuji Temple](e4101.html), which are both a ten minute walk away.

Isuien Garden is also located a 15 minute walk from Kintetsu Nara Station. From JR Nara Station, the garden can be reached by taking frequently departing buses bound for Aoyamajutaku or Kunimidai-hacchome to Oshiagecho bus stop (10 minutes, 250 yen).

[How to get to and around Nara](e4107.html)