---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4176.html
title: Nara to Asuka and Sakurai\: How to get to and around Asuka and Sakurai
description: How to get to and around Asuka.
keywords: asuka, sakurai, access, orientation, transportation, directions, get there, bus, train
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 629
char_count: 4608
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:06:24
---

From/To:

NaraOsakaKyotoTokyo

Take Kintetsu Railway from Kintetsu Nara Station to Yamato-Saidaiji Station (5 minutes) and transfer to a train to Kashiharajingu-mae Station (30-45 minutes). To reach Asuka Station, transfer once more (5 minutes). The entire one way journey takes around one hour, costs 700 yen (plus 520 yen if taking a slightly faster [limited express](e2016.html) train) and is covered by the [Kintetsu Rail Pass](e2357_006.html) and [Kansai Railway Pass](e2357_005.html) (except limited express fee), but not by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html).

There are two trains per hour between JR Nara Station and [Sakurai](e4175.html) along the JR Sakurai Line. The one way ride takes 30 minutes, costs 330 yen and is covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html).

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

[Asuka and Sakurai](e4175.html) are located at the southern end of the Yamato Plain, the [cradle of Japanese civilization](e2131.html). To the south, east and west are mountains, and at the northern end of the plain is [Nara](e2165.html), Japan's first permanent capital. In the mountains to the south lies [Yoshino](e4150.html).

Asuka and Sakurai are located near the center of the expansive network of Kintetsu Railway, with connections to [Osaka](e2157.html), [Kyoto](e2158.html), [Nara](e2165.html) and [Yoshino](e4150.html), the [Shima Peninsula](e4310.html) and [Nagoya](e2155.html). If spending a few days in the area, foreign tourists may want to consider the [Kintetsu Rail Pass](e2357_006.html) or [Kansai Railway Pass](e2357_005.html).

The local attractions of Asuka and Sakurai are spread out over a relatively wide area:

#### Around Sakurai

Sakurai Station is a major transportation hub where the Japan Railways (JR) meet Kintetsu Railway and which is also served by many local [bus](e2015.html) lines, including the one to [Tanzan Shrine](e4188.html). The [Yamanobe-no-michi Trail](e4189.html) runs parallel to the JR Sakurai Line north of Sakurai Station and can be accessed from several stations along the way. [Hasedera](e4186.html) and [Muroji](e4187.html) are located further east of Sakurai Station along the Kintetsu Osaka Line.

#### Around Asuka

The sites of ancient Asuka are spread out over what has become a very rural area. The main attractions are all within about three kilometers of Asuka Station. Alternatively, Kashiharajingu-mae Station can serve as the local transportation hub.

On dry days, [rental bicycles](e2210.html) are the most popular and convenient means of exploring Asuka. There are rental shops outside Asuka Station, Kashiharajingu-mae Station and Okadera Station, as well as elsewhere in the area. Renting a bicycle typically costs 1200 yen per day for a regular bicycle and 1700 yen for an electric bicycle. Shops are usually open from 9:00 to 17:00, and some offer drop-off services, overnight rental or rental by the hour.

Alternatively, the **Kame Loop Bus** for tourists serves most of the sights around Asuka. It generally operates once per hour except during some busy travel seasons there are two buses per hour. The bus runs between Asuka Station and Kashiharajingu-mae Station, passing most of Asuka's main attractions along the way. The cost for a single ride starts at 220 yen and increases depending on distance traveled, while a day pass for unlimited use on one calendar day is available for 750 yen.