---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4601.html
title: Sakurajima
description: Visitor guide for Sakurajima, an active volcano in Kagoshima Bay.
keywords: sakurajima, volcano, kagoshima
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 2467
char_count: 16416
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:15:27
---

Sakurajima (桜島) is one of Japan's most active [volcanoes](e2327.html) and the symbol of [Kagoshima](e4600.html). The volcano smokes constantly, and minor eruptions often take place multiple times per day. Located in the middle of Kagoshima Bay, Sakurajima is the area's most prominent geographic feature, having an elevation of 1117 meters and a circumference of about 50 kilometers.

Before a powerful eruption in 1914, Sakurajima used to be an island in the bay, but the massive lava flow from that eruption created the volcano's current land connection to the Osumi Peninsula in the east. For the majority of travelers, however, the volcano is still most easily accessed by the [ferries](e2355.html) that run the 3.5 kilometers between Kagoshima Port and the Sakurajima Ferry Terminal.

A minor eruption from the Showa Crater seen from the road

Sakurajima has three main peaks: Kita-dake ("north peak", 1117 meters), Naka-dake ("middle peak" 1060 meters) and Minami-dake ("southern peak", 1040 meters). The Minami-dake peak is currently the most active, with many eruptions taking place from the **Showa Crater** on the peak's eastern slope. It is prohibited to approach within two kilometers of the volcano's craters, but there are many observation points around Sakurajima where eruptions can be observed from about three kilometers away.

Travelers visiting Sakurajima can find many attractions just **around the ferry terminal**, including an [onsen](e2292.html), foot baths, short hiking trails and an information center. Those who would like to further explore the volcano should travel by [rental car](e2024.html), which can be taken across the water from Kagoshima by the ferries. Sightseeing buses, [regular buses](e2015.html) and rental [bicycles](e2210.html) are other possible methods of travel.

### Around the ferry terminal

* 

  Nagisa Lava Trail

  About three kilometers of walking trails extend along the water beside the Sakurajima Ferry Terminal. The trail cuts through a lava zone created by the giant eruption of 1914. Travelers can observe the growth of grasses and short plants that has taken place in the century since the eruption.
* 

  Nagisa Park Foot Bath

  These pleasant foot baths are free of charge and are a great place to take a break and observe the volcano. The baths are very long and stretch for dozens of meters. From the baths there are also decent views onto the bay and across the water to [Kagoshima City](e4600.html).
* 

  Sakurajima Visitor Center

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00  
  Admission: Free  
  Closed: No closing days

  This small visitor center is free of charge and has models, pictures, videos and information boards about Sakurajima. Much of the information is also provided in English.
* 

  Magma Onsen

  Daytime hours: 11:00 to 21:00 (entry until 20:00)  
  Daytime admission: 390 yen  
  Closed: No closing days

  Part of a larger tourist facility, which includes a hotel, shops and restaurants, the Magma Onsen has [hot spring baths](e2292.html) that are open to day trippers. The baths have large windows that look out across the water to Kagoshima City, however, on the whole, they are mediocre.
* 

  Dinosaur Park

  This unique park is located on a hill about a 15 minute walk from the ferry terminal. The park takes its name from the half a dozen life-size dinosaur statues that are scattered around its grounds. The park is good for travelers with kids as it has jungle gym equipment. The park's [cherry trees](e2011.html) make it a particularly attractive destination in early spring when the flowers are in bloom.

### Elsewhere around Sakurajima

* 

  Yunohira Observation Point

  Of Sakurajima's main observation points, the Yunohira Observation Point is the closest to the ferry terminal. It is also the closest to Sakurajima's crater, about 2.5 kilometers away, and has the highest elevation at 350 meters, along the volcano's western slope.
* 

  Kurokami Shrine Gate

  Travelers can get a sense of the size of the 1914 eruption by visiting the Kurokami Shrine Gate. The same eruption that caused the land connection of Sakurajima to the Osumi Peninsula covered the shrine's [torii](e2059.html) gate in volcanic ash, leaving only the very top still visible above ground.
* 

  Kurokami Observation Point

  The Kurokami Observation Point is located a few hundred meters from the Kurokami Shrine Gate close to the volcano's eastern coast. Just alongside the main road, the observation point has a slightly raised observation platform in front of a long flat terrain before the volcano rises. From this area travelers can get good views of the Showa Crater and its frequent small eruptions.
* 

  Arimura Observation Point

  The Arimura Observation Point gives a view onto Sakurajima's craters from a slight elevation of about 75 meters. The observation area has a number of lookout points that are connected by paved walking paths. The walking paths make for a nice little hike. There are also nice views of Sakurajima's coastline.

### How to get to Sakurajima

Central [Kagoshima](e4600.html) and Sakurajima are connected around the clock by frequent [ferries](e2355.html). The one way ride takes 15 minute and costs 250 yen. The ferry terminal is a ten minute walk from JR Kagoshima Station or a five minute walk from the Suizokukan-guchi tram stop, and is also served by the City View Buses.

[Cars](e2024.html) can be taken onto the Sakurajima ferry and cost 1700 yen one way for 3-4 meter long cars or 2350 yen one way for 4-5 meter long cars. Those trying to avoid the ferry will need to make a 90 minute detour to reach the southeastern end of the Sakurajima peninsula via land (slightly faster if using the [expressway](e2354.html)).

### How to get around Sakurajima

By far the easiest way to travel around Sakurajima is by [rental car](e2024.html). Driving once around the coast of Sakurajima takes about an hour. Car rental outlets can be found in the city center and at Kagoshima Airport.

It is also possible to travel around Sakurajima by public transportation. There is a loop bus for tourists, the Sakurajima Island View Bus, that operates every 30 minutes from the ferry terminal to the Yunohira observation point and back. The fare depends on the distance traveled or is 500 yen for a 1-day pass.

Lastly, there are regular city [buses](e2015.html) that run roughly hourly from the ferry terminal along the northern coast and along the western coast of Sakurajima; however, they do not make the entire loop around the peninsula. To access the Kurokami area, a transfer of buses is required along the way, with connections only every 2-3 hours.

[How to get to and around Kagoshima](e4604.html)