---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4150.html
title: Yoshino Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Yoshino Town in Nara Prefecture, Japan, famous for cherry blossoms.
keywords: yoshino, guide, travel, tourism, sightseeing, tourist, sakura, cherry, blossom, blossoms, yoshinoyama
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 311
char_count: 2757
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:47:37
---

[Mount Yoshino](e4152.html) (吉野山, Yoshinoyama) in Yoshino Town, [Nara Prefecture](/list/e1228.html), is Japan's most famous [cherry blossom](e2011.html) spot. It features over 30,000 cherry trees planted around the slopes which visitors can admire as they walk along the roads that lead up the mountain.

Yoshino also offers a rich history, which makes it an interesting destination at any time of the year. As the base of the pilgrimage trail to sacred Mount Omine, Yoshinoyama has been a center of Shugendo mountain worship for many centuries. The remote town also served various historical personalities as a refuge, including [Emperor](e2135.html) Go-Daigo who established a competing second imperial court there in the [14th century](e2134.html).

In 2004, Yoshino, together with [Mount Koya](e4900.html) and [Kumano](e4950.html), was designated a cultural [UNESCO World Heritage Site](e2251.html) named the "Sacred Sites and Pilgrimage Routes in the Kii Mountain Range".

* [](/e/e4152.html)

  1

  Cherry Blossoms

  [Mount Yoshinoyama••](/e/e4152.html)

  Mountain covered by thousands of cherry trees.

  4.4

  

  213
* [](/e/e4154.html)

  2

  Shrine

  [Yoshimizu Shrine•](/e/e4154.html)

  Temporary quarters of Emperor Go-Daigo.

  3.8

  

  101
* [](/e/e4153.html)

  3

  Temple

  [Kinpusenji Temple•](/e/e4153.html)

  The most important temple of Yoshino.

  3.7

  

  119
* [](/e/e4155.html)

  4

  Temple

  [Chikurin-in Temple](/e/e4155.html)

  Temple ryokan with a beautiful garden.

  3.8

  

  95
* [](/e/e4156.html)

  5

  Shrine

  [Mikumari Shrine](/e/e4156.html)

  Shrine with an unusual architecture.

  3.7

  

  71
* [](/e/e4157.html)

  6

  Temple

  [Nyoirinji Temple](/e/e4157.html)

  Site of Emperor Go-Daigo's mausoleum.

  3.3

  

  33
* [](/e/e4158.html)

  7

  Temple

  [Sakuramotobo Temple](/e/e4158.html)

  Temple of the Shugendo mountain worship.

  3.2

  

  42

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Yoshino](/e/e4150.html)

[Getting to and around Yoshino](/e/e4151.html)
[See access info](/e/e4151.html)