---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4021.html
title: Universal Studios Japan (USJ)
description: Visitor guide for the Universal Studios Japan, a theme park under the renowned Universal Studios brand
keywords: universal, studio, studios, usj, osaka, japan, theme, park
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 3048
char_count: 20847
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:52:08
---

Universal Studios Japan (USJ) was the first [theme park](e2067.html) under the Universal Studios brand to be built in Asia. Opened in 2001 in the [Osaka Bay Area](e4010.html), the theme park has been expanded over the years and is one of the most visited amusement parks in Japan.

|  |
| --- |
| [**Purchase USJ Studio Pass**](https://www.klook.com/activity/46604-universal-studios-japan-e-ticket-osaka-qr-code-direct-entry/?aid=12675) |

Universal Studios Japan currently has ten sections: Hollywood, New York, San Francisco, Jurassic Park, Waterworld, Amity Village, Universal Wonderland, Minion Park, The Wizarding World of Harry Potter and Super Nintendo World. Visitors are able to enjoy many amusement rides, ranging from child-friendly carousels to thrilling roller coasters and simulators based on popular movies such as the Minions, Shrek and Jurassic Park.

In addition to rides, the theme park offers many opportunities to take pictures with popular characters' mascots such as Snoopy, Hello Kitty and the Muppets. There are also various shows put on every day, including a night parade featuring illuminated floats.

Just outside the park's gates is **Universal Citywalk Osaka**, a [shopping](e4013.html) mall with multiple hotels and many restaurants and shops, including stores selling Universal Studios merchandise and [Osaka](e2157.html) souvenirs. Furthermore, the Osaka Takoyaki Museum, which is essentially a collection of several popular [takoyaki](e2316.html) vendors, is located on the mall's fourth floor.

Universal Citywalk Osaka

### By train

The park's entrance gate is located a five minute walk from Universal City Station on the JR Yumesaki Line (also referred to as JR Sakurajima Line). From [Osaka Station](e4020.html), there are several direct trains per hour (15 minutes, 200 yen) and many more connections that require an easy transfer at Nishikujo Station. From [Kansai Airport](e2033.html), take a JR airport rapid to Nishikujo Station and transfer to the JR Yumesaki Line to Universal City Station (75 minutes, 1180 yen).

### By bus

Universal Studios Japan is connected by bus to [Kansai Airport](e2033.html) (50-70 minutes, 1800 yen, hourly) and [Itami Airport](e2433.html) (45 minutes, 940 yen, hourly). Some [overnight buses](e2366.html) from other cities across Japan also stop at the Universal Studios Japan.

### By ferry

A [ferry](e2355.html) service named "Captain Line" connects the Universal Studios Japan with the [Osaka Aquarium](e4004.html) (10 minutes, 900 yen one way, 1700 yen roundtrip, 1-2 ferries per hour). A combination ticket for the aquarium and the ferry ride can be purchased for 3400 yen (one way) or 4200 yen (roundtrip).

[How to get to and around Osaka](e4006.html)