---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4551.html
title: Kumamoto to Aso\: How to get to and around Aso
description: How to get to and around Aso.
keywords: aso, access, orientation, transportation, directions, get there, train, bus
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 1625
char_count: 10749
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:23:56
---

From/To:

KumamotoFukuokaTokyoBeppuKurokawaYufuinTakachiho

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

The journey between [Kumamoto](e4500.html) and [Aso](e4550.html) stations can be done by [local](e2016.html#category) trains (100 minutes, 1300 yen one way, almost every hour, one transfer at Higo-Ozu Station) or direct [limited express](e2016.html#category) trains (70 minutes, around 2000-3000 yen one way, every three hours) along the JR Hohi Line. All trains are covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and the [Kyushu Rail Pass](e2361_05.html) (All Kyushu and Northern Kyushu versions).

Two types of buses ("Yamabiko" services and "Kyushu Odan" services) travel from [Kumamoto](e4500.html) (stopping at Kumamoto Station, the Sakuramachi Bus Terminal and the airport) to [Aso](e4550.html) Station before continuing on across [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html) to Oita and [Beppu](e4700.html) respectively. The one way trip between Kumamoto Station and Aso Station takes around two hours, costs 1800 yen and is covered by the [Sun Q Pass](e2357_014.html). "Yamabiko" buses operate once every 2-3 hours, while "Kyushu Odan" buses operate only three times per day. Reservations for the "Kyushu Odan" buses can be made online via [Willer](https://willer-travel.com/en/bus_search/kumamoto/kumamoto/kumamoto/aso/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184) and [Japan Bus Online](https://japanbusonline.com/CourseSearch/14301010001?afcd=MDI=&RosenNm=aso-kumamoto).

[Book Now](https://willer-travel.com/en/bus_search/kumamoto/kumamoto/kumamoto/aso/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184)

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

A [rental car](e2024.html) is the recommended means of transportation in the [Aso area](e4550.html). Although most tourist sites are served by public transportation, the [trains](e2019.html) and [buses](e2015.html) are not very frequent, and a rental car provides more flexibility and comfort. Many rental car outlets are located in [Kumamoto City](e4500.html) and at Kumamoto Airport, but only a few can be found in the Aso area.

The transportation hub in Aso is Aso Station on the JR Hohi Line, which runs [across Kyushu](e4571.html) between [Kumamoto](e4500.html) and Oita. [Buses](e2015.html) run between Aso Station and the peak of [Mount Aso](e4552.html). The Minami Aso Railway is for the most part only useful for travelers who plan on continuing to [Takachiho](e8050.html), as there is a bus connection to Takachiho from around Takamori Station.