---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4030.html
title: Mozu Tombs
description: Visitor guide for the kofun tombs in the Mozu area of Saki City, just south of Osaka.
keywords: kofun, tombs, mozu, grave, graves, tomb, sakai, osaka, japan, sightseeing, tourist, information, guide, travel
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 3093
char_count: 21253
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:52:51
---

The Emperor Nintoku Kofun behind a torii gate

The Mozu Tombs (百舌鳥古墳群, Mozu Kofungun) are a cluster of several dozen ancient tombs in the Mozu area of Sakai City, immediately south of [Osaka City](e2157.html). The cluster, along with some other tombs in the region, makes up the "Mozu-Furuichi Kofungun Ancient Tumulus Structures", which were designated a [Cultural World Heritage Site](e2251.html) in 2019.

The tombs were built in the [4th to 6th centuries](e2131.html) for the ruling elite, with the larger, more elaborately shaped mounds signifying higher status than smaller amd simpler ones. The largest of the tombs is the **Emperor Nintoku Kofun** which is believed to be the tomb of [Emperor](e2135.html) Nintoku. With the surrounding moats included, the tomb is about 800 meters long and 600 meters wide, making it not only Japan's largest grave, but also one of the world's largest. Less than a kilometer away lies the **Emperor Richu Kofun**, the third largest tomb in Japan.

View from the observation deck at the Sakai City Hall towards the Emperor Nintoku Kofun

Kofun tombs are large mounds of earth. Originally kept relatively free of vegetation, today most of them are covered by trees. Many of the larger tombs, including the ones of Emperor Nintoku and Emperor Richu, are of a keyhole shape and surrounded by moats. The tombs are generally not open to the public, and the larger ones are difficult to fully appreciate unless viewed from a high vantage point. The free observation deck on the 21st floor of the Sakai City Hall allows for such views from about a kilometer away.

A large number of medium and small sized kofun tombs are spread across the spacious and pleasant **Daisen Park** which stretches between the kofun of Emperor Nintoku and Emperor Richu. Balloon rides are from this park, giving participants a bird’s-eye view of the vast tombs that are otherwise difficult to fully appreciate. The park also offers a few attractions that are not directly related to the tombs:

* 

  Sakai City Museum

  Hours: 9:30 to 17:15 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Mondays (except [public holidays](e2062.html))  
  Admission: 200 yen  
  Typical visit duration: 45 minutes

  This museum documents the history of the port town of Sakai through the ages, beginning with a detailed account of the kofun tombs including artifacts excavated from inside the burial sites.
* 

  Japanese Garden

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (Mar to Nov), 9:30 to 16:30 (Dec to Feb)  
  Closed: Mondays (or next day if Mon is a [public holiday](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission: 200 yen  
  Typical visit duration: 30-40 minutes

  Visitors can enjoy strolling around this traditional [Japanese garden](e2099.html). In addition to various water features and a picturesque bridge, there is a rest house and multiple seating areas to take in the views.
* 

  Shimano Bicycle Museum

  Hours: 10:00 to 16:30 (entry until 16:00)  
  Closed: Mondays (except [national holidays](e2062.html)), days after national holidays (except Sat/Sun), [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission: 500 yen  
  Typical visit duration: 45 minutes

  Shimano is a world leader in bicycle component manufacturing and has its headquarters in Sakai City. Their well-done museum documents the evolution of [bicycles](e2210.html) with various historical models on display to an exhibition of present technology.

The Mozu Tombs and the surrounding attractions are most easily accessed from Mozu Station along the JR Hanwa Line. From [Tennoji](e4025.html), take a [rapid](e2016.html) train to Sakaishi (7 minutes) and transfer to a [local](e2016.html) train to Mozu (4 minutes). The one way journey costs 240 yen and is covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and other JR passes. Daisen Park is a short walk from the station.

The other station of interest is Sakaihigashi Station along the Nankai Koya Line which lies next to the Sakai City Hall and a 20-30 minute walk from Daisen Park. The one way ride from Namba Station to Sakaihigashi takes about 15 minutes and costs 290 yen by [express](e2016.html) trains. It is not covered by JR passes.

[How to get to and around Osaka](e4006.html)