---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4206.html
title: Higashi Chaya District (Higashi Chayagai)
description: Visitor guide for Kanazawa's Higashi Chaya District, a historic entertainment district with teahouses where geisha perform.
keywords: higashi, chaya, tea, chayagai, kanazawa, geisha, district, eastern, higashichayagai
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 1853
char_count: 12944
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:23:34
---

A chaya (lit. teahouse) is an exclusive type of restaurant where guests are entertained by [geisha](e2102.html) who perform song and dance. During the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603 - 1868), chaya were found in designated entertainment districts, usually just outside the city limits. [Kanazawa](e2167.html) has three, well preserved chaya districts: Higashi Chayagai (Eastern Chaya District), [Nishi Chayagai](e4212.html) (Western Chaya District) and Kazuemachi.

Of the three districts, the Higashi Chaya District (東茶屋街, Higashi Chayagai) is the largest and by far the most interesting. Two chaya, the Shima Teahouse and Kaikaro Teahouse, are open to the public. Other buildings along the central street now house cafes and shops. One of the shops, Hakuza, sells gold leaf products, a specialty of [Kanazawa](e2167.html), and displays a tea ceremony room which is completely covered in gold leaf.

* 

  Shima Teahouse

  30 meters down the north side of the street  
  Hours: 9:30 to 17:30 (until 17:00 from December to February)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 500 yen

  A preserved tea house, which has been converted into a museum. The rooms where geisha would perform and the kitchen are on display along with various instruments and items used by the geisha.
* 

  Kaikaro Teahouse

  100 meters down the south side of the street  
  Hours: 10:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: Wednesdays  
  Admission: 750 yen

  The Kaikaro Chaya is still an operating tea house, but opens its doors to the public. Tea service is included with admission.
* 

  Hakuza Gold Leaf Store

  A few steps from Shima Teahouse  
  Hours: 9:30 to 17:30  
  Closed: No closing days

  A shop selling gold leaf products, a specialty of Kanazawa. Inside the shop is a traditional Japanese warehouse which has been turned into a tearoom and completely covered inside and out with gold leaf.

The Higashi Chaya District can be accessed by the Right Loop of the [Kanazawa Loop Bus](e4208.html) in about 15 minutes from Kanazawa Station. Get off at Hashibacho bus stop, from where the district can be reached in a five minute walk.

[How to get to and around Kanazawa](e4208.html)