---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4811.html
title: Fukuoka Food Guide
description: Introducing some of the local food and dishes of Fukuoka.
keywords: fukuoka, hakata, food, stall, stalls, yatai, guide, local, cuisine
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 2300
char_count: 15546
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:54:40
---

Fukuoka's famous food stalls (yatai) located along the river on Nakasu Island

As one of the closest cities to the Asian mainland, [Fukuoka](e2161.html) has developed a unique and interesting food culture that has been influenced by Korean and Chinese cuisine. Some Fukuoka dishes, such as Hakata Ramen and motsunabe, have swept Japan by storm and become widely popular across the country.

Anyone would do right to try these dishes on their home turf, and the local specialties are probably best sampled at one of the popular [yatai food stalls](e4803.html) found around the city. But there are also countless atmospheric restaurants in Fukuoka especially around downtown Tenjin, the Nakasu entertainment district and Hakata Station where some nice restaurants are located on the upper dining floors of the station building.

* 

  Hakata Ramen

  Hakata Ramen is a local [ramen](e2042.html) dish that features thin noodles in a thick, creamy tonkotsu soup, topped with slices of chashu. Some of the best places to enjoy Hakata Ramen are the city's emblematic [yatai food stalls](e4803.html). Hakata Ramen can also be found at any of the numerous [ramen-ya](e2042.html) in [Fukuoka](e2161.html), especially around Hakata Station.
* 

  Mentaiko

  Mentaiko, the spicy version of cod roe (tarako), is found nationwide and eaten together with cooked rice or as a seasoning in pasta dishes. Mentaiko is particularly famous in Fukuoka, where it originated by way of Korea, and is a typical menu item at the [food stalls](e4803.html) and [izakaya](e2036.html) around the city where it is usually served raw or lightly seared.
* 

  Motsunabe

  Motsunabe is a local hot pot dish typically made up of beef or pork tripe, cabbage, garlic, chives and togarashi peppers in a [soy sauce](e2045.html) or [miso](e2045.html) based soup. The inexpensive, slightly spicy stew is usually cooked at the table on portable burners and served together with a bowl of [white rice](e2043.html). Noodles or additional rice may be added to the leftover soup in the pot at the end of the meal to finish the dish.
* 

  Tetsunabe Gyoza

  [Gyoza](/r/e107.html) are pan-fried, Chinese style dumplings, which are typically stuffed with a mixture of ground pork, cabbage and green onions. While gyoza appear on the menus of [ramen-ya](e2042.html), [izakaya](e2036.html) and other [restaurants](e2036.html) nationwide, they are also a popular Fukuoka specialty where they are served in large batches on ceramic or hot iron plates. Fukuoka, or Hakata, style gyoza can be found at specialty gyoza shops around the city, especially around Hakata Station.

[How to get to and around Fukuoka](e4802.html)