---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4495.html
title: Hirado Christian Sites
description: Visitor guide to Christian sites around Hirado.
keywords: hirado, christian, christianity, hidden, kakure, kirishitan, nagasaki
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 882
char_count: 6098
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:26:12
---

View of the spire of St. Francis Xavier Memorial Church in contrast with temple roofs

[Christianity](e2298.html) entered Japan in the [mid 1500s](e2134.html) and found considerable numbers of followers around today's [Nagasaki Prefecture](/list/e1240.html), the main entry port of Westerners into Japan. When the religion was banned in the [Edo Period](e2128.html) and the Christians were forced to give up their religion, a few believers, known as the "Hidden Christians", continued to practice their religion in secret for over two centuries. Some did so in the remote villages of [Hirado Island](e4490.html).

In the [late 1800s](e2130.html), the ban on Christianity was lifted, and many of the Hidden Christians rejoined the Catholic Church and built new churches with the assistance of foreign priests. A few also refrained from rejoining because their religious practices evolved quite a bit over the centuries to a degree that they were not compatible with Catholicism anymore.

Some of the sites of interest related to Christianity in Hirado are listed below:

### Central Hirado

* 

  St. Francis Xavier Memorial Church

  Hours: 6:00 to 16:30 (Sundays from 10:00)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free

  Opened in 1913 as the Hirado Catholic Church, the building was moved to its present location on a hill overlooking the city in 1913 and renamed in honor of St. Francis.
* 

  Temple and Church Viewpoint

  A unique view juxtaposing the spire of St. Francis Xavier Memorial Church with Buddhist temple buildings can be seen along a walking path that leads from port area up to the church.

### On the Kyushu mainland

* 

  Tabira Church

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: Closed during special events  
  Admission: Free

  Located outside of central Hirado on the Kyushu mainland, this red-brick, Romanesque-style church was built in 1918 by followers who relocated to the area from [Sotome](e4415.html) and [Kuroshima](e4478.html). Visitors are asked to give prior notice before visiting through [this website](https://kyoukaigun.jp/en/archives/culture/1427-2).

### Elsewhere in Hirado

* 

  Shima no Yakata Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (admission until 16:30)  
  Closed: January 1 to 2  
  Admission: 520 yen

  One room of this museum has exhibits about local Hidden Christians and recreates part of a traditional residence that allowed its inhabitants to practice their religion in secret. The rest of the museum is devoted to traditional whaling. Relatively good English information is available.
* 

  Nakae no Shima

  Located two kilometers off the coast of Hirado Island, Nakae no Shima is a small, uninhabited island where religious leaders were executed during the persecution of Christians. The island is considered sacred, and water collected there is used for baptism.
* 

  Kasuga Village

  This idyllic, remote village was refuge to a small community of Hidden Christians who practiced here for centuries, far from the prying eyes of the government. After the ban on Christianity was lifted, the local villagers decided to continue practicing their own unique brand of the religion rather than rejoin the Catholic Church. As a result, churches were not erected in the village, and the religion remains outwardly invisible.
* 

  Hirado Kirishitan Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:30 (admission until 16:30)  
  Closed: Wednesdays and December 29 to January 2  
  Admission: 200 yen

  Located in the remote countryside, this small yet informative museum displays a good collection of religious artifacts, such as rosary beads, medals and everyday items with concealed religious imagery that were used to practice the religion in secret.
* 

  Himosashi Church

  Hours: 8:00 to 14:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free

  Himosashi Church is one of several Catholic churches that was built on Hirado after the end of the ban on Christianity. Standing prominently on a small hill in the center of its town, the Himosashi Church was constructed in 1929.

### How to get to St. Francis Xavier Memorial Church

The St. Francis Xavier Memorial Church sits on the hill overlooking Hirado Port. It is about a 15-20 minute walk uphill from the Hirado Bus Terminal.

### How to get to Tabira Church

The church can be reached in about a 30 minute walk from Nishi-Tabira Station on the Matsuura Railway (80 minutes, 1460 yen one way from Sasebo, hourly departures). Alternatively, a [taxi](e2021.html) ride from central Hirado to the church takes about 15 minute and costs around 2500 yen one way.

### How to get to the Shimo no Yakata Museum

Hourly [buses](e2015.html) operate between the Hirado Bus Terminal and Ikitsukiohashi-koen mae (生月大橋公園前) bus stop from where the museum is a 5 minute walk. The one way bus ride takes 30 minutes and costs 740 yen.

### How to get to Himosashi Church

Himosashi Church can be reached from Hirado Bus Terminal by [bus](e2015.html) (40 minutes, 950 yen one way, one bus every 1-2 hours). Get off at Himosashi (紐差).

### How to get to Kasuga Village and Hirado Kirishitan Museum

Due to virtually inexistent public transportation, a [rental car](e2024.html) is recommended to access the Kasuga Village and Hirado Kirishitan Museum. Rental car outlets can be found around Sasebo Station.

[How to get to and around Hirado](e4491.html)