---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4000.html
title: Osaka Castle (Osakajo)
description: Visitor guide for Osaka Castle (Osakajo).
keywords: osaka, castle, osakajo, japan
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 2896
char_count: 19861
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:50:00
---

The construction of Osaka Castle (大阪城, Ōsakajō) started in [1583](e2123.html) on the former site of the Ishiyama [Honganji Temple](e3920.html), which had been destroyed by [Oda Nobunaga](e2123.html) thirteen years earlier. [Toyotomi Hideyoshi](e2123.html) intended the [castle](e2296.html) to become the center of a new, unified Japan under Toyotomi rule. It was the largest castle at the time.

However, a few years after Hideyoshi's death, [Tokugawa](e2128.html) troops attacked and destroyed the castle and terminated the Toyotomi lineage in 1615. Osaka Castle was rebuilt by Tokugawa Hidetada in the 1620s, but its main castle tower was struck by lightening in 1665, burnt down, and was not rebuilt during the feudal ages.

It was not until 1931 that the present ferro-concrete reconstruction of the [castle](e2296.html) tower was built. During the war it miraculously survived the city-wide air raids. Major repair works gave the castle new glamor in 1997. The **castle tower** is now entirely modern on the inside and even features an elevator for easier [accessibility](e2301.html). It houses an informative museum about the castle's history and [Toyotomi Hideyoshi](e2123.html).

Located next to the castle tower and included in the ticket price is the **Toyotomi Stone Wall Museum**. Newly opened in 2025, the museum exhibits some of the castle's original stone walls, which were covered up by the Tokugawa when they rebuilt the castle after the 1615 battle, and which were not rediscovered until the 1950s.

Tickets for entering the castle tower and stone wall museum can be purchased at the castle tower, but be aware that **long lines can form** on busy days, resulting in waiting times of over 30 minutes. Note, however, that the line can be skipped by [purchasing e-tickets](#section_admission) in advance.

Toyotomi Stone Wall Museum

The castle tower is surrounded by secondary citadels, gates, turrets, impressive stone walls and moats. The **Nishinomaru Garden**, encompassing the former "western citadel", is a lawn garden with 600 [cherry trees](e2011.html), a tea house, the former Osaka Guest House and nice views of the castle tower from below. Unlike most of the rest of the castle grounds, the garden requires an admission fee.

The entire Osaka Castle Park covers about two square kilometers with lots of green space, sport facilities, a multi-purpose arena (Osakajo Hall) and a shrine dedicated to [Toyotomi Hideyoshi](e2123.html). The park is one of [Osaka's most popular hanami spots](e4018.html) during the [cherry blossom season](e2011.html), which usually takes place in late March and/or early April.

Nishinomaru Garden during the cherry blossom season

The recommended approach to Osaka Castle is through Otemon Gate at the park's southwestern corner. The closest station is Tanimachi Yonchome Station along the Tanimachi and Chuo subway lines.

The closest JR station to Osaka Castle is Osakajokoen Station on the JR Loop Line, a 10 minute, 180 yen ride from JR Osaka Station.

[How to get to and around Osaka](e4006.html)