---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4256.html
title: Wakura Onsen
description: About Wakura Onsen, a popular hot spring resort town on the Noto Peninsula.
keywords: wakura, onsen, hot, spring, resort, town, noto, peninsula, japan
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 572
char_count: 3992
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:48:34
---

[2024 Noto Peninsula Earthquake

A strong earthquake hit the Noto Peninsula on New Year's Day. Read our update for travelers.](/news/alerts.html)

Wakura Onsen (和倉温泉) is a [hot spring](e2292.html) resort located beside Nanao Bay on the [Noto Peninsula](e4250.html). The resort town is dominated by massive [ryokan](e2029.html) complexes along the water's edge. The most famous of them is the Kagaya, which consistently ranks among Japan's best ryokan for its excellent service and facilities.

The large [ryokan](e2029.html) complexes offer a wide variety of facilities to their guests, including [hot spring baths](e2292.html), restaurants, [karaoke](e2066.html) rooms, bars, theaters and game centers. As a result, visitors rarely feel the need to venture outside, and Wakura's streets are not very lively. But the town does have a few minor sights that justify a walk. Across from the Kagaya ryokan, there is a public square (hiroba) with a hot spring water fountain and a small park around a [shrine](e2059.html) and a hot spring source with water pipes.

View from the teahouse at the Kagaya Bettei Matsuno Midori ryokan

Nearby in the lobby of the Kagaya Bettei Matsuno Midori ryokan is the Kado Isaburo Museum with exhibits of modern interpretations of lacquerware by local artist Kado Isaburo. Also open to the public at the ryokan is a teahouse with about 150 years of history. Visitors can also request to participate in a tea ceremony there between 15:00 to 18:00 (additional charges apply). Not far from the ryokan is the Le Musee de H, a confectionery museum by a famous Japanese pastry chef. Consisting of only a single exhibition room, Le Musee de H exhibits a few sculptures artistically made of sweets. Adjacent is a cafe.

The best way to enjoy the [bathing](e2292.html) experience at Wakura Onsen is to stay overnight at one of the [ryokan](e2029.html). But the waters can also be enjoyed by daytrippers, as some ryokan allow non-staying guests to use their bathing facilities during the day for typically 500 to 1500 yen. Furthermore, there is a dedicated paid [public bath house](e2074.html), the Soyu Public Bath, in the town center. A few free foot baths (ashiyu) are also found around town.

Soyu Public Bath

From [Kanazawa](e2167.html), there are [limited express](e2016.html) trains that run directly to Wakura Onsen Station (one hour, about 2500 yen, departures every 2-3 hours). Wakura Onsen can also be reached from Kanazawa by local trains with one transfer at Nanao Station (100 minutes, 1410 yen).

Central Wakura Onsen is located about two kilometers away from Wakura Onsen Station. It is possible to walk the distance in about 30 minutes, but some hotels offer free pick up, and there are also [local buses](e2015.html) and [taxis](e2021.html).

[How to get to and around the Noto Peninsula](e4251.html)