---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4690.html
title: Amami Oshima Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Amami Oshima, s subtropical islands in southern Kagoshima Prefecture.
keywords: Amami, Oshima, travel, guide, Kagoshima, island, islands, tourist, tourism, sightseeing, visitor, guide
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 310
char_count: 2537
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:49:48
---

Amami Oshima (奄美大島, Amami Ōshima) is the largest island in the Satsunan island chain that runs between [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html) and [Okinawa](/list/e1247.html) and belongs to [Kagoshima Prefecture](/list/e1246.html). The island's climate, beaches, fauna and flora (including [mangrove forests](e4692.html) and large ferns) make the island characteristically similar to the [Okinawan Islands](/list/e1247.html) to the south.

Amami Oshima attracts with its beautiful [beaches](e4693.html) dotted along its coastline with white sand and clear, warm waters ideal for swimming during the summer months. The beaches on the island tend to be less crowded than those in [Okinawa](e7100.html), and while a lot of the beaches are great for swimming and relaxing, some also provide good [snorkeling](e2424_snorkeling.html) opportunities.

In addition to beautiful nature, Amami Oshima has a rich human history and a [unique cuisine](e4694.html). The island is additionally known for its revered Oshima Tsumugi silk that has for centuries been used to make high-quality [kimono](e2101.html). As with [Okinawa](/list/e1247.html), the best weather is usually experienced on Amami Oshima from late June through August.

* [](/e/e4693.html)

  1

  Beach

  [Beaches••](/e/e4693.html)

  Sand beaches for bathing and snorkeling.

  17
* [](/e/e4692.html)

  2

  Nature

  [Mangrove Forest•](/e/e4692.html)

  Mangroves to be explored by kayak.

  11
* [](/e/e4696.html)

  3

  Nature

  [Around the Island](/e/e4696.html)

  Other attractions around the island.

  17
* [](/e/e4694.html)

  4

  Food and Drink

  [Keihan](/e/e4694.html)

  Amami's famous chicken rice dish.

  9
* [](/e/e4695.html)

  5

  Museum

  [Tanaka Isson Museum](/e/e4695.html)

  Art museum located in Amami Park.

  9

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Amami](e4690.html)

[Getting to and around Amami Oshima](e4691.html)
[See access info](e4691.html)