---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4012.html
title: Shinsekai and Tsutenkaku Tower
description: Visitor guide for Shinsekai, a leisure district in Osaka.
keywords: shinsekai, tsutenkaku, osaka, new, world, tower
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 2817
char_count: 19348
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:52:18
---

Shinsekai (新世界, lit. "New World") is a district in [Osaka](e2157.html) that was developed before the war and then neglected in the decades afterwards. At the district's center stands Tsutenkaku Tower, the nostalgia-evoking symbol of Shinsekai.

The area was developed into its current layout following the success of the 1903 National Industrial Exposition, which brought over five million people to the neighborhood. Shortly after the expo closed its doors, work began to improve and update Shinsekai.

Paris was chosen as the model for Shinsekai's northern half, while the southern portion was built to imitate Coney Island in New York. **Tsutenkaku Tower** was constructed in 1912 after Paris' Eiffel Tower. Although it was scrapped during WWII, the tower was reconstructed soon afterwards in 1956. The current tower is 103 meters high, with the main observatory at a height of 91 meters. In addition, the tower offers an open-air deck on top of the main observatory and a 60 meter long slide at the base of the tower. It is also possible to participate in an activity that involves walking and jumping around the exterior of the tower.

Another noted attraction is **kushikatsu**, one of [Osaka](e2157.html)'s best known [specialties](e4022.html). It is a dish composed of various skewered, battered and deep fried foods. Varieties on offer range from chicken and beef, to pumpkin and asparagus, to the banana and ice cream dessert varieties. Many of Shinsekai's kushikatsu [restaurants](e2036.html) are open 24 hours, but only truly come alive when the lights come on at night.

Shinsekai is also home to **Spa World**, a huge bath complex with a large number of hot spring baths on a European-themed floor and an Asian-themed floor. The floors are switched between genders each month, and bathing is enjoyed naked. Natural [hot spring](e2292.html) water is pumped up from far below the earth's surface. In addition, there is a separate pool area for kids and relaxation to be enjoyed with swimming wear.

Kushikatsu

Shinsekai is a short walk from Shin-Imamiya Station on the JR Osaka Loop Line, Dobutsuen-mae Station on the Midosuji and Sakaisuji subway lines, and Ebisucho Station on the Sakaisuji Subway Line.

[How to get to and around Osaka](e4006.html)