---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4681.html
title: Cape Nagasakibana
description: Visitor guide for Cape Nagasakibana, located at the southern tip of the Satsuma Peninsula.
keywords: nagasakibana, cape, southern, tip, kaimondake, kaimon, satsuma, peninsula
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 346
char_count: 2551
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:07:54
---

Cape Nagasakibana (長崎鼻岬, Nagasakibana Misaki) is the southernmost point of the [Satsuma Peninsula](e4675.html). However, it is not quite the southernmost point of [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html), as the Osumi Peninsula on the other side of Kagoshima Bay extends a further 20 kilometers south. A walking path leads from a small cluster of souvenir shops to a white lighthouse at the tip of the cape.

A highlight of a visit to the cape are the views of nearby **Mount Kaimondake**, which stands 924 meters above sea level. Because of its conical shape, it bears a striking resemblance to [Mount Fuji](e2172.html) and is often referred to as "Satsuma Fuji". It is possible to hike up the mountain, whose trail winds around the mountainside and gives plenty of breathtaking views of the surrounding area.

Another attraction at the cape is the **Nagasakibana Parking Garden** with a variety of tropical plants and animals, such as lemurs, flamingos, squirrels, monkeys, hibiscuses, cacti and mango trees. A bit further north is the [Flower Park Kagoshima](e4680.html) with an even larger variety of plants.

A traveler enjoys the view of Mount Kaimondake from Cape Nagasakibana

There are infrequent [buses](e2015.html) from [Ibusuki](e4677.html) Station to Cape Nagasakibana (40 minutes, 670 yen, every 2 hours until mid afternoon). The buses are bound for Ikedako (池田湖) and also stop at Yamakawa Station, the [Healthy Land](e4677.html#healthy) and the [Flower Park Kagoshima](e4680.html).

[How to get to and around the Satsuma Peninsula](e4676.html)