---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4525.html
title: What to see in Minamata
description: Travel guide for the city of Minamata, Japan.
keywords: minamata, guide, travel, tourism, sightseeing, tourist, city, visitor, information
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 287
char_count: 2273
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:48:06
---

Minamata City (水俣) in southern [Kumamoto Prefecture](/list/e1244.html) gained worldwide fame in the 1950s and 1960s through a [mercury poisoning](e4527.html) disaster, caused by a local factory's discharge of poisonous wastewater into Minamata Bay.

Thousands of local inhabitants fell victim to the poisoning, and the disease caused by mercury poisoning became globally known as the [Minamata Disease](e4527.html), named after the city where it had first been discovered.

In recent decades, Minamata has been building on its negative history in a positive way and established itself as an [environmental model city](e4528.html), promoting a wide range of recycling and environmental programs. The city is welcoming school and study tours from across Japan and the world for the study of environmental problems.

Home to about 30,000 people, Minamata is beautifully located along the coast of the Shiranui Sea with views onto the [Amakusa Islands](e4590.html). Two [hot spring](e2292.html) resorts are located within the municipal limits of Minamata: mountainous [Yunotsuru Onsen](e4529.html) and coastal [Yunoko Onsen](e4530.html).

* [](/e/e4527.html)

  1

  Museum

  [Disease Related Sites•](/e/e4527.html)

  Disease related museums and monuments.

  17
* [](/e/e4531.html)

  2

  Agriculture

  [Fukuda Farm](/e/e4531.html)

  Attractive farm with restaurant and shops.

  11
* [](/e/e4528.html)

  3

  Industry/Commerce

  [Eco City Minamata](/e/e4528.html)

  Minamata as environmental model city.

  8
* [](/e/e4530.html)

  4

  Onsen

  [Yunoko Onsen](/e/e4530.html)

  Hot spring resort along the sea coast.

  8
* [](/e/e4529.html)

  5

  Onsen

  [Yunotsuru Onsen](/e/e4529.html)

  Hot spring resort in the mountains.

  6

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Minamata](/e/e4525.html)

[Getting to and around Minamata](/e/e4526.html)
[See access info](/e/e4526.html)