---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4575.html
title: Kurokawa Onsen Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Kurokawa Onsen, a very attractive hot spring resort in the center of Kyushu.
keywords: kurokawa, onsen, hot, springs, travel, guide, sightseeing, visitor, information, tourist
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 1167
char_count: 7858
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:48:37
---

Kurokawa Onsen (黒川温泉) is one of Japan's most attractive [hot spring](e2292.html) towns, located in the middle of [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html) about 20 kilometers north of [Mount Aso](e4552.html). Well coordinated efforts by the town to maintain a pleasant, traditional atmosphere have kept Kurokawa free of the massive concrete hotels, neon advertisements and loud colors that are encountered in many of Japan's other [resort towns](e2292_where.html).

Instead, Kurokawa's townscape is dominated by natural colors and materials, wooden buildings, earthen walls, stone stairs and a river flowing through. The town center, located in a forested valley, is compact and easily explored on foot, except for a few [ryokan](e2029.html) which are located less centrally.

The town's lanes are lined by [ryokan](e2029.html), [public bath houses](e2074.html), attractive shops and cafes, a small [shrine](e2059.html) and bridges that lead over the river directly to ryokan entrances. A walk through town is particularly enjoyable in [yukata](e2103.html) and geta sandals provided by one's ryokan. An information center, where maps and other information can be obtained, is also found in the town center.

Kurokawa is not only known for its attractive town, but also for the outstanding [outdoor baths](e2292.html) (rotenburo) of its [ryokan](e2029.html) some of which are located right besides a gushing river or impress by their large sizes. The larger baths with good views tend to be located a little bit outside of the town center, while some of the more central ryokan attract with smaller but historic baths, which were already enjoyed by the [feudal lords](e2128.html) of nearby [Kumamoto Castle](e4501.html).

While staying guests naturally have the opportunity to enjoy their own [ryokan](e2029.html)'s baths as often as they wish, it is also possible for overnight visitors and daytrippers to explore other baths in town during daytime and engage in a so called Rotemburo Meguri ("tour of outdoor baths").

For this purpose, a wooden pass (tegata) is sold for 1500 yen, providing admission to the baths of three different ryokan of one's choice (valid for up to six months). It is available at the information center and the over twenty participating ryokan. Alternatively, the cost is around 600 yen per bath. Inquire at the information center for eventual closures on the day of your visit.

In addition to the [ryokan](e2029.html) baths, Kurokawa has two very simple, unmanned [public bath houses](e2074.html) with small indoor baths: the Jizoyu is located in the very town center, while the Anayu stands along the river just above the town center and was recently rebuilt after it had been destroyed in a storm in 2020. Admission to either bath costs 200 yen.

Below is a list of some of Kurokawa's best baths:

* 

  Yamamizuki••

  Daytime Hours: 10:00 to 15:00  
  Daytime Admission: 600 yen  
  Overnight Stay: From 21,000 yen per person including 2 meals

  One of the best riverside baths in Japan, Yamamizuki's outdoor bath is located in the woods next to a picturesque mountain river. There are also some tasteful indoor baths. All pools are gender separated.
* 

  Hozantei••

  Daytime Hours: 11:00 to 15:00  
  Daytime Admission: 800 yen  
  Overnight Stay: From 28,000 yen per person including 2 meals

  Located the farthest from the town center, almost three kilometers into the wooded hills, Hozantei offers another outstanding riverside bath surrounded by the forest in a pleasantly rustic atmosphere. The baths are gender separated.
* 

  Iyashi no Sato Kiyashiki••

  Daytime Hours: 11:00 to 18:00  
  Daytime Admission: 600 yen  
  Overnight Stay: From 18,000 yen per person including 2 meals

  Despite its short history as a hot spring establishment (founded in 1989), Kiyashiki and its baths feel very rustic and traditional. There is a nice variety of pools including an indoor bath, a wooden tub, a standing bath and a large outdoor bath surrounded by thick foliage. The facilities are gender separated.
* 

  Kurokawaso•

  Daytime Hours: 10:30 to 21:00 (entry until 20:30)  
  Daytime Admission: 700 yen  
  Overnight Stay: From 30,000 yen per person including 2 meals

  Kurokawaso features a huge outdoor bath that is surrounded by trees and has some views onto a cliff face. Additionally, there is a smaller outdoor pool and a spacious indoor bath. All bathing facilities are gender separated.
* 

  Oku no Yu•

  Daytime Hours: 8:30 to 20:00 (entry until 19:30)  
  Daytime Admission: 700 yen  
  Overnight Stay: From 22,000 yen per person including 2 meals

  There is a wide variety of gender separated baths at Oku no Yu, including a steam sauna, a cave bath and a couple of outdoor pools with decent views of the river. Nonetheless, the presentation of the baths leaves something to be desired compared to some of the above listed locations.
* 

  Yamabiko Ryokan•

  Daytime Hours: 8:30 to 21:00  
  Daytime Admission: 600 yen  
  Overnight Stay: From 24,000 yen per person including 2 meals

  There are two outdoor baths available to daytime visitors: a large one and a smaller one. One of the baths is women only, while the other is men only, alternating on a daily basis. The baths are surrounded by rocks and plants.
* 

  Sato no Yu Waraku

  Daytime Hours: 11:00 to 14:00 (entry until 13:30)  
  Daytime Admission: 600 yen  
  Overnight Stay: From 43,000 yen per person including 2 meals

  Waraku offers two baths to daytime visitors: an outdoor bath and a unique rock cave, which are alternated daily between use by men and women. Staying guests can enjoy private hot spring baths in their rooms.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

From/To:

FukuokaKumamotoBeppuAsoTokyo

A direct [highway bus](e2366.html) runs twice per day between [Fukuoka](e2161.html) (Hakata Station, Tenjin Bus Center and Fukuoka Airport) and [Kurokawa Onsen](e4575.html). The one way trip takes around 3 hours, costs 3470 yen and is covered by the [Sun Q Pass](e2357_014.html). Online reservations can be made via [Willer](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/fukuoka/all/kumamoto/kurokawaonsen/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184).

[Book Now](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/fukuoka/fukuoka/kumamoto/kurokawaonsen/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184)

Kurokawa Onsen is not connected to the [railway](e2019.html) network, but [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and [Kyushu Rail Pass](e2361_05.html) holders can save a few yen by boarding the above-mentioned Fukuoka-Kurokawa highway bus at Hita instead of Hakata. Hita Station is accessed from [Fukuoka](e2161.html)'s Hakata Station by direct [limited express](e2016.html) train (75 minutes, 3000-3500 yen one way) or by [local](e2016.html) trains via Kurume (100 minutes, 1930 yen); both fully covered by the JR passes. The bus ride from Hita Bus Center to Kurokawa takes 70 minutes and costs 1880 yen. There are two buses per day.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

Kurokawa's town center is small and compact and can be easily navigated on foot. The exception are a few [ryokan](e2029.html) such as the Yamamizuki and Hozantei, which are located 1-3 kilometers outside of the town center. Daytime visitors without a [rental car](e2024.html) seem to have no choice but to walk to these more remote ryokan, while staying guests can use pick-up services. Nearby locations with [car rental](e2024.html) outlets are [Kumamoto](e4500.html), Kumamoto Airport, [Beppu](e4700.html) and Oita.