---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4282.html
title: Komatsu Airport
description: Visitor guide for Komatsu Airport in southern Ishikawa Prefecture, serving Kanazawa and Fukui.
keywords: komatsu, airport, kanazawa, fukui, kaga, flights
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 1762
char_count: 12389
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:18:18
---

Komatsu Airport (小松空港, Komatsu Kūkō) is a medium sized [airport](e2365.html) located in Komatsu City, halfway between [Kanazawa](e2167.html) and [Fukui City](e6600.html). It is one of Japan's more important regional airports with frequent flights to [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s [Haneda Airport](e2430.html), [Sapporo](e2163.html), [Fukuoka](e2161.html) and [Naha](e7102.html). Additionally there are [international flights](e2034.html) to some Asian destinations.

Not far from the airport stands the [Airport and Aviation Plaza](e4283.html#airport), an aviation museum displaying a variety of decommissioned airplanes, dozens of airplane models and other aviation related exhibits. Entrance to the museum is free of charge.

### From Kanazawa

There are direct airport buses between Komatsu Airport and [Kanazawa](e2167.html). The one way trip takes 40 minutes and costs 1300 yen.

### From Kaga Onsen

Two to four airport buses operate every hour between the airport and Komatsu Station (15 minutes 280 yen), from where buses or trains can be taken south into the [Kaga Onsen](e4275.html) area. From Komatsu Station, Kaga Onsen Station can be reached in 15 minutes and for 270 yen one way by [train](e2019.html), while [buses](e2015.html) connect to [Awazu Onsen](e4280.html) in 20-30 minutes and for 460 yen one way.

### From Fukui

There are a few direct buses between Komatsu Airport and [Fukui](e6600.html) (Fukui Station East Exit). The one way trip takes one hour and costs 1400 yen.

[How to get to and around Kanazawa](e4208.html)
  
[How to get to and around Kaga Onsen](e4276.html)
  
[How to get to and around Fukui](e6603.html)