---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4881.html
title: Kawachi Fujien Wisteria Garden
description: Visitor guide for the spectacular Kawachi Fujien Wisteria Garden in Kitakyushu City.
keywords: kawachi, fujien, wisteria, kitakyushu, wisterias, garden, park, flower, flowers
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 424
char_count: 3008
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:08:07
---

Kawachi Wisteria Garden (河内藤園, Kawachi Fujien) is a private garden in the wooded hills south of central [Kitakyushu](e4875.html), famous for its spectacular displays of wisteria [flowers](e2423.html). The garden is opened to the public seasonally during the wisteria season which usually peaks around late April to early May and during the [maple leaf season](e2014.html) in autumn.

The garden's most prominent features are two, roughly 100 meter long tunnels made of wisteria trees of differing varieties and colors, ranging from white to dark purple. Furthermore, there is a collection of large wisteria trees that together form an enormous roof of drooping flowers. A viewpoint at the top of the hillside garden allows for nice views over the sea of wisteria flowers and the surrounding valley which is also know for its bamboo groves.

Kawachi Wisteria Garden has grown very popular in recent years and now attracts large numbers of domestic and international visitors during the wisteria season, which often falls into the busy [Golden Week](e2282.html). To reduce congestion, advance reservations are required to enter the garden during the peak season in spring.

The enormous roof of wisteria flowers seen from the garden's viewpoint

Despite its popularity, Kawachi Wisteria Garden is not properly served by public transportation. A shuttle bus used to be offered from Yahata Station to the garden in the past; however, it has not been operating in recent years.

### By car

Free parking is provided near the entrance of the wisteria garden. [Rental car](e2024.html) outlets can be found around Kokura and Kurosaki stations.

### By bus

Nishitetsu [bus](e2015.html) number 56 runs about once per hour from Space-World Station to Kamishigeta (上重田), the final stop along the line (25 minutes, 300 yen one way); however, from the bus stop it is still a 45-55 minute walk to the garden.

[How to get to and around Kitakyushu](e4876.html)