---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4706.html
title: Mount Tsurumi (Beppu Ropeway)
description: Visitor guide for the Beppu Ropeway to the top of Mount Tsurumi.
keywords: beppu, ropeway, mount, tsurumi, panorama, viewpoint, observation, deck, mountain
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 1983
char_count: 12566
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:10:02
---

Mount Tsurumi (鶴見岳, Tsurumidake) is a 1375 meter high mountain that overlooks [Beppu](e4700.html). The mountain is accessible via the Beppu Ropeway which takes visitors nearly 800 meters up the steep slopes to a small park near the summit. The park offers multiple observation decks with panoramic views of Beppu and Oita City, Mount Yufu and as far as the [Kuju Mountains](e4775.html) when visibility is good.

The small park is covered by a network of walking paths that lead to the various nearby viewpoints. The actual summit of Mount Tsurumi can be reached in a 15 minute walk from the upper ropeway station. More demanding hiking trails connect Mount Tsurumi to the surrounding mountain peaks. It is also possible to bypass the ropeway and climb up the entire mountain in about two hours via a hiking trail that starts at the lower ropeway station.

Beppu and Oita City can be seen from one of the viewpoints just north of the upper ropeway station

The scenery around Mount Tsurumi changes with the seasons. In early to mid April, over 2000 [cherry trees](e2011.html) bloom around the ropeway's lower station, turning the area into one of Beppu's most popular [hanami spots](e2011_where.html). Rhododendrons color the mountain slopes typically from mid May to early June.

[Fall colors](e2014.html) start appearing around the summit in early October and slowly make their way down the mountain over the course of five or six weeks. In winter, hoarfrost covers the trees and bushes around the summit in a delicate, crystalline coat of ice. The hoarfrost typically appears between December and mid March.

Hiking trails lead to shrines and viewpoints around the summit

The lower station of the Beppu Ropeway is located along the regular road that connects Beppu with [Yufuin](e4750.html). It can be reached by [bus](e2015.html) number 36 in about 20 minutes from Beppu Station (500 one way, 1-2 buses per hour).

[How to get to and around Beppu](e4705.html)