---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4100.html
title: Todaiji Temple
description: Visitor guide for Todaiji, a great temple in Nara.
keywords: todaiji, temple, nara, japan, nigatsudo, sangatsudo, hokkedo
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 2374
char_count: 15931
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:43:10
---

Todaiji (東大寺, Tōdaiji, "Great Eastern Temple") is one of Japan's most famous and historically significant [temples](e2058.html) and a landmark of [Nara](e2165.html). The temple was constructed in 752 as the head temple of all provincial [Buddhist](e2055.html) [temples](e2058.html) of Japan and grew so powerful that the capital was moved away from [Nara](e2165.html) in 784 in order to lower the temple's influence on government affairs.

Until recently, Todaiji's main hall, the **Daibutsuden** (Big Buddha Hall), held the record as the world's largest wooden building, despite the fact that the present reconstruction of 1692 is only two thirds of the original temple hall's size. The massive building houses one of Japan's largest bronze statues of [Buddha](e2055.html) (Daibutsu). The 15 meters tall, seated Buddha represents Vairocana and is flanked by two Bodhisattvas.

Big Buddha (Daibutsu) - his open hand alone is as tall as a human being

Several smaller Buddhist statues and models of the former and current buildings are also on display in the Daibutsuden Hall. Another popular attraction is a pillar with a hole in its base that is the same size as the Daibutsu's nostril. It is said that those who can squeeze through this opening will be granted enlightenment in their next life.

Along the approach to Todaiji stands the **Nandaimon Gate**, a large wooden gate watched over by two fierce looking statues. Representing the Nio Guardian Kings, the statues are designated national treasures together with the gate itself. Temple visitors will also encounter some deer from the adjacent [Nara Park](e4103.html), begging for shika senbei, special crackers for deer that are sold for around 200 yen.

Deer in front of the Nandaimon Gate

Todaiji's grounds are spacious and cover most of northern [Nara Park](e4103.html), including a number of smaller temple halls and sites of interest around the Daibutsuden Hall. Below are some of the other attractions that can be found in the Todaiji temple complex:

* 

  Todaiji Museum

  Hours: 9:30 to closing time of Daibutsuden Hall  
  Closed: between exhibitions  
  Admission: 800 yen (museum only), 1200 yen (museum and Daibutsuden)

  The Todaiji Museum was opened to the public in 2011 just next to the Nandaimon Gate, along the main approach to the Daibutsuden Hall. Rotating exhibitions from the temple's large collection of religious art and cultural treasures, including large Buddhist statues, are held at the museum.
* 

  Nigatsudo Hall

  Hours: Always open  
  Admission: Free

  The Nigatsudo Hall is a short walk on the hill east of the Daibutsuden Hall and offers nice views of the city from its balcony. The hall is the site of the spectacular [Omizutori ceremonies](e4110.html), held every March.
* 

  Approach to Nigatsudo Hall

  The side approach to Nigatsudo Hall is a quiet and picturesque street not far from the Daibutsuden Hall. Stone walls flank the side of the street, and the Nigatsudo can be seen at the end of the path.
* 

  Hokkedo Hall

  Hours: 8:30 to 16:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 800 yen

  The Hokkedo, also known as the Sangatsudo, is one of the oldest surviving structures in the Todaiji temple complex. It is a short walk east of the Daibutsuden Hall, beside Nigatsudo Hall. The building houses a statue of Kannon, surrounded by Buddhist guardians.
* 

  Kaidando Hall

  Hours: 8:30 to 16:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 800 yen

  Rebuilt in the [Edo Period](e2128.html), the Kaidando Hall originally dates back to the 8th century when it served as Japan's most important ordination hall. Today, it houses celebrated clay statues of the four heavenly kings (shitenno).
* 

  Shosoin Storehouse

  Hours: 10:00 to 15:00  
  Closed: Weekends and [national holidays](e2062.html), December 28 to January 4  
  Admission: Free

  The Shosoin is a large storehouse constructed in the [8th century](e2132.html). Located a five minute walk behind the Daibutsuden Hall, the building is elevated on stilts and used to store the treasures of Todaiji Temple and the [Imperial Family](e2135.html). It can be viewed only from the outside.
* 

  Former site of the Lecture Hall

  The former site of the Lecture Hall can be found directly behind the Daibutsuden Hall, on the way to the [Shosoin](e4100.html#shosoin). All that remains of the former temple building are some stone foundations in the ground.
* 

  Site of former east pagoda

  In the past, Todaiji's Daibutsuden Hall was flanked by two seven-storied [pagodas](e2058.html), which were each about 100 meters tall. In 2015, the exact location of the former east pagoda was ascertained. The excavated area (shown on the photo) has since been covered up, and there are plans to rebuilt the pagoda to its former glory.

Todaiji is located in the northern part of [Nara Park](e4103.html). It is about a 30 minute walk from Kintetsu Nara Station, or about a 45 minute walk from JR Nara Station. It can also be reached by [bus](e2015.html) from either station. Get off at Todaiji Daibutsuden from where it is a 5-10 minute walk to Todaiji's main building.

[How to get to and around Nara](e4107.html)