---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4285.html
title: Mount Hakusan
description: Basic guide for climbing Mount Hakusan in Ishikawa Prefecture
keywords: hakusan, mount, mt, haku, climb, climbing, mountain, hiking, trails
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 798
char_count: 5441
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:18:08
---

View from Gozengamine Peak, the highest point of Mount Hakusan

Mount Hakusan (白山) is a dormant volcano that lies along the border between [Ishikawa](/list/e1222.html) and [Gifu](/list/e1220.html) Prefectures. This 2702 meter high mountain at the center of Hakusan National Park is the country's tallest peak west of the Japanese Alps. It is also considered one of the country's three most sacred mountains along with [Mount Fuji](e2172.html) and [Mount Tateyama](e7550.html). Covered in snow for over half of the year, Hakusan becomes a popular hiking destination during the climbing season from June to October.

The most popular route up the mountain starts at the **Bettodeai Trailhead** from where the round trip to the summit takes 8-10 hours. With an early start it is possible to climb Hakusan in a day; however, a rental car is recommended for accessing the trailhead, as limited bus service makes it difficult to complete the climb before the last bus departure of the day. In either case, nearby [Shiramine Onsen](e4284.html) is a convenient base from which to climb the mountain.

Two trails, the **Sabo Shindo** and the **Kanko Shindo**, lead up the mountain from Bettodeai. While both trails are about the same distance, the southern approach along the Sabo Shindo is less steep, making it both easier and faster to climb. The Kanko Shindo, on the other hand, traces along a ridge and offers panoramic views of the surrounding mountains especially along the descent. Both trails have a small mountain hut along the way where hikers can spend the night (reservations required).

It takes about 3.5 to 5 hours to make the 6.6 km climb up to **Murodo**, a well maintained mountain station with lodging (reservations required), toilets, a visitor center, shop, dining hall, shrine and medical station. It is a great place to take a break, grab a snack and fill up your water bottles before the final ascent to the peak. The last section of the trail is a relatively easy 30-40 minute climb from Murodo to **Gozengamine Peak** at the top of Mount Hakusan.

Along the Sabo Shindo trail

At the top of the mountain lies the satellite shrine of [Shirayamahime Shrine](e4284.html), whose main buildings are found in [Hakusan City](e4284.html) further down in the valleys below. The top also offers breathtaking views of the surrounding countryside all the way out to the Sea of Japan and the Northern Alps in the distance.

From the peak, either return to Murodo the way you came or take the alternate **Oike Meguri** loop which leads down the side of Gozengamine, past several mountain ponds back to Murodo. Overall the loop adds an extra 30 minutes (1.5 km) to the descent, but includes some nice views. Several other trails lead up Mount Hakusan from a variety of points around the mountain, including some long distance treks to the [Hakusan Super Rindo](e4286.html) and [Shirakawa-go](e5950.html).

Murodo mountain hut and visitors center

### By bus

Public transportation to the Bettodeai trailhead is provided only on a small number of days during the hiking season from July to late September, when [buses](e2015.html) from Matto Station operate to the Ichinose bus stop (90 minutes, 2500 yen one way). A transfer to a shuttle bus is required there to reach the Bettodeai trailhead (10 minutes, 1000 yen one way).

### By car

The Bettodeai trailhead is most easily accessed by [car](e2024.html). A large parking lot lies just below the trailhead. However, the road to Bettodeai is closed to private cars on busy days during the peak season (around weekends and [holidays](e2062.html) from early July to mid October). During these times shuttle buses (1000 yen one way) ferry hikers in from an alternate, larger parking lot at Ichinose further down the mountain.

[How to get to and around Kaga Onsen and Hakusan](e4276.html)