---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4026.html
title: Abeno Harukas
description: Visitor guide for Abeno Harukas, formerly the tallest building in Japan.
keywords: abeno, harukas, osaka, harukasu, kintetsu, abenobashi, tennoji
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 2933
char_count: 20146
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:52:11
---

Standing 300 meters tall, Abeno Harukas (あべのハルカス) in [Osaka](e2157.html) was the tallest skyscraper in Japan from its completion in 2014 until 2023. The building stands on top of the Kintetsu Osaka Abenobashi Station and is conveniently located across from [JR Tennoji Station](e4025.html). It houses a department store, an art museum, a hotel and an [observation deck](e2326.html).

The **observation deck** is called "Harukas 300" and occupies the building's top three floors (floors 58 to 60). It is accessed by elevator from the 16th floor. With large floor-to-ceiling glass panels all around, the 60th floor offers 360 degree views of Osaka, while the 58th floor features an attractively designed inner court with a wooden deck and cafe. A souvenir shop and restrooms with views are also available.

Harukas 300 observation deck

**Abeno Harukas Kintetsu Department Store** is the largest [department store](e2072.html) in Japan. Covering over 100,000 square meters of retail space, it comprises of two buildings: the tower and the wing. The tower building carries many international brands, has two floors dedicated to interior and furnishing, two food floors in the basement, as well as three floors of restaurants. The interior is aesthetically designed, combining art and functionality.

Over at the wing building, shops marketed under the "Solaha" branding are geared towards a younger clientele. There is also a floor for sports and travel goods, as well as a kids bookstore. Both buildings are connected by passages or short escalators on certain floors.

Abeno Harukas Kintetsu Department Store

The **Abeno Harukas Art Museum** is located on the 16th floor next to the elevators that lead to the observation deck. The [museum](e2428.html) doesn't have a permanent collection and stages changing exhibitions of mainly Western and Buddhist art every few months. A **garden terrace** on the same floor offers some green space to sit down and relax. Freely accessibly to everyone, the terrace also affords views down one side of the building (onto central Osaka), but the views are naturally not quite as commanding as the ones from the 60th floor.

A **rooftop plaza** is, furthermore, found on the wing building of the Abeno Harukas Kintetsu Department Store. Accessed from the 10th floor of the main tower, the plaza contains a small vegetable garden and a small shrine. You can also have a close-up view of Abeno Harukas's main tower from the rooftop plaza.

Garden terrace on the 16th floor

Abeno Harukas stands on top of Kintetsu Osaka-Abenobashi Station, just across from [JR Tennoji Station](e4025.html).

### From Osaka Station

15 minutes, 240 yen from JR Osaka Station. Alternatively, 15 minutes, 290 yen from Umeda Station on the Midosuji Subway Line. Get off at Tennoji Station.

### From Namba Station

5 minutes, 180 yen from JR Namba Station. Alternatively, 5 minutes, 240 yen from Namba Station on the Midosuji Subway Line. Get off at Tennoji Station.

[How to get to and around Osaka](e4006.html)