---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4417.html
title: Twenty Six Martyrs Monument
description: Visitor guide for the Twenty Six Martyrs Monument in Nagasaki.
keywords: twenty, six, martyr, martyrs, monument, museum, museums, 26, nagasaki, christian, christianity, church
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 1779
char_count: 11999
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:26:32
---

The monument standing in front of the memorial museum

The Twenty Six Martyrs Monument and adjacent museum (二十六聖人記念館, Nijūroku Seijin Kinenkan) in [Nagasaki](e2162.html) are dedicated to the twenty six [Christians](e2298.html) who were executed here on February 5, 1597. They included both foreign missionaries and Japanese laymen. Missionary activities were prohibited at the time, and Japan's ruler [Toyotomi Hideyoshi](e2123.html) staged the execution as a warning.

The monument is located in a small park on a hill not far from Nagasaki Station with nice views of the city. A straight red line runs from the monument across the park's plaza in the direction of the [Oura Church](e4407.html), which is also dedicated to the martyrs, on the opposite side of the city.

The museum behind the monument is devoted to the memory of the martyrs and to [Christianity](e2298.html) in Japan in general. Its interior is reminiscent of a church with stained-glass windows, making for atmospheric viewing of the exhibits. On display are artifacts related to Christianity in Japan, including old documents, statues and jewelry. Explanations of many of the pieces are available in English.

Inside the Twenty Six Martyrs Museum

The Twenty Six Martyrs Monument and museum are located up a steep hill, a ten minute walk from Nagasaki Station.

[How to get to and around Nagasaki](e4410.html)