---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4677.html
title: Ibusuki
description: Visitor guide for Ibusuki, a town on the Satsuma Peninsula in southern Kagoshim Prefecture that is famous for its sand baths.
keywords: ibusuki, onsen, sand, bath, sunamushi, satsuma, peninsula
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 749
char_count: 5342
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:49:00
---

Travelers enjoy a sand bath on the beach at the Saraku Sand Bath Hall

Ibusuki (指宿) is an [onsen town](e2292.html) that is famous for its [sand baths](e2292_types.html), where bathers are buried in naturally heated sand. The town encompasses the southern tip of the [Satsuma Peninsula](e4675.html), and the main downtown area is along the coast facing Kagoshima Bay.

Ibusuki's sand baths can be enjoyed at a number of hotels and other facilities, but the most popular place is the [Saraku Sand Bath Hall](#saraku), which is about a kilometer from Ibusuki Station. At sand baths, guests get provided with [yukata](e2103.html) robes and are then buried by staff members in hot sand that is heated by natural steam coming up from below. After staying buried for typically 10-20 minutes, guests wash off the sand and enter regular [hot spring baths](e2292.html).

Although the sand baths are far and away Ibusuki's most famous attraction, there are a number of other activities available. Local history and [pottery](e2329.html) are on display at the [Satsuma Denshokan Museum](#denshokan), while another fantastic bathing experience can be enjoyed at the outdoor baths of [Healthy Land](#healthy). At the very southern end of Ibusuki City is [Cape Nagasakibana](#nagasaki), which has a nice lookout point with views onto the ocean and nearby Mount Kaimondake.

### Baths

* 

  Saraku Sand Bath Hall••

  Hours: 8:30 to 21:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 1400 yen

  The most popular facility for enjoying the sand baths of Ibusuki, the Saraku Sand Bath Hall is the first spot to visit in Ibusuki for the majority of travelers. It has large facilities, indoor baths, a steam room and spots for being buried in the steaming sand on the [beach](e2461.html).
* 

  Healthy Land••

  Outdoor bath hours: 9:30 to 19:30 (entry until 19:00)  
  Closed: Thursdays (or following day if Thursday is a [national holiday](e2062.html))  
  Outdoor bath fee: 900 yen (1500 yen during peak holiday periods, such as [New Year](e2276.html), [Golden Week](e2282.html) and [Obon](e2286.html))

  Healthy Land is a [public bath](e2074.html) consisting of two separate buildings. Its most impressive baths are a couple of large, gender-separated outdoor baths along the coast with spectacular views. Regular indoor baths and sand baths can be found at the other building about 500 meters away (separate entry fees and hours apply).

### Other Attractions

* 

  Satsuma Denshokan Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 18:00 (9:00-13:00 on Wed, 13:00-18:00 on Thu)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 1500 yen

  Located on the grounds of the Hotel Hakusuikan, this spectacularly designed museum introduces the history of Satsuma (modern day [Kagoshima](/list/e1246.html)) around the beginning of the [Meiji Period](e2130.html) (1868-1912) with a focus on local [ceramics](e2329.html).
* 

  [Cape Nagasakibana](e4681.html)

  [Cape Nagasakibana](e4681.html) is the Satsuma Peninsula's southernmost tip, still located within the municipality of Ibusuki. A number of shops and facilities in the area cater to visiting travelers, and there are attractive lookout points onto the water. Particularly nice is the view of nearby [Mount Kaimondake](e4681.html), which is also known as "Satsuma [Fuji](e2172.html)".
* 

  [Flower Park Kagoshima](e4680.html)

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: December 30-31  
  Admission: 630 yen

  The [Flower Park Kagoshima](e4680.html) is a spacious, attractive botanical garden, located about a kilometer north of Cape Nagasakibana. There is a focus on tropical flowers both native to Japan and elsewhere. There are also some lookout points along the coast.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

Ibusuki Station can be reached directly from [Kagoshima](e4600.html) Chuo Station by [limited express](e2016.html) train (50 minutes, around 3000 yen one way, 3 trains/day) or [local](e2016.html) train (70-80 minutes, 1170 yen, 1-2 trains/hour). Both are covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html).

The **Saraku Sand Bath Hall** can be reached from Ibusuki Station by a 15 minute walk or a five minute [bus](e2015.html) ride (160 yen), while the **Satsuma Denshokan Museum** can be reached by a 5-10 minute [taxi](e2021.html) ride.

To get to the **Healthy Land** baths, take a [bus](e2015.html) from Ibusuki or Yamakawa Station bound for Kaimon Station (開聞駅前) and get off at the Healthyland bus stop (ヘルシーランド) from where it is a five minute walk to the open air baths. The same bus continues on to the [Flower Park Kagoshima](e4680.html) and [Cape Nagasakibana](e4681.html).

[How to get to and around the Satsuma Peninsula](e4676.html)