---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4180.html
title: Asuka Museum
description: Visitor guide for the Asuka Museum, which illustrates the history and culture of the Asuka Period (538-710).
keywords: asuka, museum, history, period, stone, statues, shiryokan
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 360
char_count: 2754
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:06:30
---

The Asuka Museum and a reconstruction of the Shumisenseki fountain

The Asuka Museum (飛鳥資料館, Asuka Shiryōkan) covers the local history during the [Asuka Period](e2131.html) (538-710). Unfortunately, English translations of the displays are limited. Nonetheless, there are a number of models and reconstructions which can be understood with a basic familiarity of the area. The museum consists of a couple exhibition rooms on the ground floor and a special exhibition room in the basement.

One of the most interesting attractions of the museum is the Sekijinzo, a stone fountain of an embracing man and woman that is displayed in the lobby. It was unearthed a few hundred meters from the museum, and dates back to the 7th century. Also on display is the Shumisenseki stone fountain, which was found with the Sekijinzo and also dates back to the 7th century. A reconstruction of the Shumisenseki is on display outside the museum entrance, as well as a few stone sculptures.

A model of the Asuka region during the Asuka Period

The Asuka Museum is located beside Asuka Shiryokan bus stop, which can be reached on the Kame Loop Bus from Kashiharajingu-mae Station (17 minutes, 320 yen, one bus per hour). The museum can also be reached by rental [bicycle](e2210.html) in about 15 minutes from Kashiharajingu-mae Station.

[How to get to and around Asuka](e4176.html)