---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4884.html
title: Tanga Market
description: Visitor guide the Tanga Market in Kitakyushu City.
keywords: kitakyushu, kokura, tanga, market, ichiba
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 356
char_count: 2558
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:08:09
---

Important Notice:

Two separate fires caused considerable damage to parts of the market in April and August 2022. The undamaged part of the market has reopened to the public.

Tanga Market (旦過市場, Tanga Ichiba) is a covered local [market](e2452.html) street in [Kitakyushu](e4875.html). Known as the "Kitchen of Kitakyushu", the market started in the early 1900s at its current location adjacent to the Kantake River, which provided a convenient means for boats to easily deliver fresh ingredients. There are about 120 shops selling seafood and prepared foods packed into the relatively small block that makes up the market, including a handful of restaurants.

Most of the stores are located along the market's main street and the quieter side streets lead to dried food stores and shops selling produce and goods. While Tanga Market is very much a place for locals to buy their groceries, visitors can also enjoy the market by dining at a restaurant or picking up some prepared foods and fruit to savor. Because the lanes are narrow, visitors should not bring any large [luggage](e2274.html) and move with consideration to people around them.

Tanga Market is a stone's throw from Tanga Station (2 minutes from Kokura Station, 100 yen one way) on the Kitakyushu Monorail. Alternatively, it can be reached from Kokura Station in a ten minute walk.

[How to get to and around Kitakyushu](e4876.html)