---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4742.html
title: Usuki Stone Buddhas (Usuki Sekibutsu)
description: Visitor guide for the stone Buddhas of Usuki, designated national treasures of Japan
keywords: usuki, stone, buddha, buddhas, sekibutsu, magai
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 412
char_count: 2905
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:21:19
---

The Usuki Stone Buddhas (臼杵石仏, Usuki Sekibutsu) are statues of various Buddhas sculpted into a cliff about five kilometers southwest of [Usuki](e4740.html)'s city center. In Japan, Buddha statues are usually made of wood or metal. Stone statues are rarer, and Usuki's are the only stone Buddhas in Japan to be designated as national treasures.

The **Stone Buddhas** are divided into four clusters, which are just a short walk away from each other. It takes about 30 minutes to complete an easy paved trail that passes by all of them.

The beautiful statues are estimated to have been created around the late [Heian Period](e2132.html) (794-1185). They are carved from highly workable, soft, volcanic rock from nearby [Mount Aso](e4552.html). However, the relatively soft material, in combination with high moisture levels in the area, make these masterpieces susceptible to erosion. Great efforts are made to preserve them, including shelters that have been built to shield them from the elements of nature.

A five minute walk across the field from the stone Buddhas is **Mangatsuji Temple**, a simple temple in the tranquil neighborhood. A pair of stone sculpted Nio guardians stand in front of the [temple](e2058.html) with interesting expressions on their faces. There are also a few other stone sculptures on the temple's grounds, including one of the [Buddhist](e2055.html) priests who, according to legend, created the stone Buddhas.

Mangatsuji Temple

There are [buses](e2015.html) running from Usuki Station to Usuki Sekibutsu bus stop (臼杵石仏, 20 minutes, 200 yen one way). However, these buses operate only once every 1-3 hours, and therefore a [taxi](e2021.html) or [rental car](e2024.html) would be more convenient options. The one way taxi fare is about 2200 yen from Usuki Station or 1700 yen from Kami-Usuki Station. A Toyota rental car outlet can be found near Kami-Usuki Station, but outlets are more readily available at [Beppu](e4700.html), Oita and Oita Airport.

[How to get to and around Usuki](e4741.html)