---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4009.html
title: Kita (Umeda)
description: Visitor guide for Kita, the northern city center of Osaka around Osaka and Umeda Station.
keywords: kita, umeda, osaka
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 3534
char_count: 24670
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:52:39
---

The Kita (キタ, "North") district, also known as Umeda (梅田), is one of [Osaka](e2157.html)'s two main city centers. It is located around the large station complex that comprises Osaka and Umeda stations. Kita's counterpart is [Minami](e4001.html) (ミナミ, "South") around Namba Station. Besides being Osaka's busiest [transportation](e627.html) hub and a bustling business district, Kita also offers an abundance of [shopping](e4013.html), [dining](e4022.html), [lodging](/hotels/osaka.html) and entertainment, including several [department stores](#department) and an expansive network of [underground shopping malls](#underground).

The Umeda district has been undergoing a major facelift over the past years, and [more improvements](/news/osaka-station-umekita.html) are scheduled to happen. [JR Osaka Station](#city) was transformed from one of Japan's darkest and most cramped into one of the country's most pleasant. Furthermore, the expansive freight rail yard north of the station is being redeveloped into a new, modern city district. A first part of the huge redevelopment project was completed with the opening of the [Grand Front Osaka](#umekita) complex in 2013 and the second part, [Grand Green Osaka](#umekita2), is currently being opened step-by-step and expected to be completed in 2027.

* 

  [Osaka Station City](e4020.html)

  Shops: typically 10:00 to 20:00  
  Restaurants: typically 11:00 to 23:00

  Opened in 2011, [Osaka Station City](e4020.html) is the transportation, shopping, entertainment and business complex that surrounds and includes JR Osaka Station. The station's lavish new design is represented by a giant glass roof high above the train platforms.
* 

  Grand Green Osaka

  [Grand Green Osaka](/news/osaka-station-umekita.html) is a large redevelopment northwest of JR Osaka Station, featuring green space in the form of Umekita Park and several skyscrapers with shops, restaurants and hotels. Some parts of the complex are still under constructions and expected to be fully completed in spring 2027.
* 

  [Grand Front Osaka](e4027.html)

  Shops: typically 11:00 to 21:00  
  Restaurants: typically 11:00 to 23:00

  Opened in 2013 north of Osaka Station, [Grand Front Osaka](e4027.html) consists of multiple, connected high rise buildings and offers a wide variety of shops and restaurants, as well as offices, residential space, small parks and the [Intercontinental Hotel Osaka](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/intercontinental-osaka.html?aid=371183).
* 

  Links Umeda

  Hours: typically 10:00 to 21:00  
  Yodobashi: 9:30 to 22:00

  Links Umeda is yet another shopping complex adjacent to Osaka Station, featuring fashion and lifestyle shops. Half of the complex is made up of Yodobashi Camera Umeda, a huge electronics store.
* 

  [Umeda Sky Building](e4002.html)

  Observatory Hours: 9:30 to 22:30  
  Observatory Admission: 2000 yen

  Northwest of Osaka Station is Shin Umeda City, a building complex centering around the [Umeda Sky Building](e4002.html), a spectacular 173 meter tall skyscraper opened in 1993 with an open-air observation deck on its roof. The skyscraper next to the Umeda Sky Building houses the [Westin Osaka](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/westin-osaka.html?aid=371183) hotel.
* 

  Kitte Osaka (JP Tower)

  Shops: 11:00 to 20:00  
  Restaurants: typically 11:00 to 23:00

  Kitte Osaka is the shopping and dining complex in the lower floors of the JP Tower Osaka, which opened in 2024. It features many shops and restaurants from the various [prefectures of Japan](/list/e1002.html). The upper floors are occupied by the luxury [Osaka Station Hotel](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/osaka-autograph-collection.html?aid=371183).
* 

  Department stores

  Hours: typically 10:00 to 20:00

  There are a number of major [department stores](e2072.html) in the Kita area including Hankyu, Hanshin, Daimaru and Isetan Mitsukoshi. Some of the stores share their names with the local [train companies](e2019.html) as the trains and department stores belong to the same company groups.
* 

  HEP (Hankyu Entertainment Park)

  Hours: 11:00 to 21:00 (Ferris wheel and restaurants until 23:00)

  HEP is a large shopping and entertainment complex east of the Hankyu department store. A Ferris wheel emerges from the roof of the complex, which houses over 300 shops and restaurants.
* 

  Underground shopping

  Hours: typically 10:00 to 22:00

  Below the streets of Umeda and between the various stations and department stores sprawls an extensive network of interconnected shopping malls housing literally hundreds of shops and restaurants of all kinds. There is a mix of famous fashion brands and cheaper shops, as well as eateries selling various types of food.
* 

  Shopping arcades

  Bars and restaurants typically open from 17:00 until after midnight

  To the east of Osaka Station lies a network of covered shopping arcades that stretch in different directions. Besides shops, the arcades feature a lot of [izakaya](e2036_izakaya.html), bars and [restaurants](e2036.html) offering Japanese and international cuisines. Whilst many establishments are open during the day, the area really comes to life in the evenings.
* 

  Kitashinchi District

  Kitashinchi comes to life after 18:00

  For those who find the newly developed dining areas of [Osaka Station City](#city) and [Grand Front Osaka](#umekita) a little too modern and sterile, the Kitashinchi entertainment district, located south of and within walking distance of Osaka Station, provides a good alternative with its hundreds of restaurants, bars and night clubs.
* 

  Nakazakicho District

  Cafes and shops are open all day, typically from around 11:00

  This quaint neighborhood to the east of Osaka Station is a warren of narrow streets and alleys lined with cool cafes, craft shops and used clothes stores. Popular with the hipster crowd, the neighborhood is great for relaxing exploration and a cup of coffee after visiting the more bustling commercial area to the west.

The Osaka/Umeda station complex is the busiest in western Japan, shared by four different [railway companies](e2019.html). It consists of multiple separate stations:

* Above ground:
  + Osaka Station (Japan Railways; includes some underground tracks)
  + Osaka-Umeda Station (Hankyu Railway)
* Underground:
  + Osaka-Umeda Station (Hanshin Railway)
  + Umeda Station (Midosuji Subway Line)
  + Nishi-Umeda Station (Yotsubashi Subway Line)
  + Higashi-Umeda Station (Tanimachi Subway Line)

### From Shin-Osaka Station

4 minutes, 180 yen by frequently departing JR trains. Alternatively, the Midosuji Subway Line takes 6 minutes and costs 240 yen.

### From Namba Station

8 minutes, 240 yen by Midosuji or Yotsubashi subway lines.

[How to get to and around Osaka](e4006.html)