---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4903.html
title: Kongobuji Temple
description: Visitor guide for Kongobuji, the head temple of the Shingon sect.
keywords: kongobuji, temple, mount, koya, koyasan
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 1655
char_count: 11310
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:05:57
---

Kongobuji (金剛峯寺, Kongōbuji) was originally constructed in 1593 by [Toyotomi Hideyoshi](e2123.html) to commemorate the death of his mother. Later it was merged with a neighboring temple and reorganized into the head temple of [Shingon Buddhism](e2055.html), the sect introduced to Japan by [Kobo Daishi](e4901.html) in 805 and headquartered on [Koyasan](e4900.html).

After entering the building, taking off their shoes and paying the admission fee, visitors will first come across the **Ohiroma Room** which was used for important rituals and religious ceremonies. The room's gilded sliding doors (fusuma) are adorned with cranes painted by Kano Tanyu. Next to the Ohiroma Room are the Plum and Willow Rooms, named after the paintings on their sliding doors. Toyotomi Hidetsugu committed ritual suicide in the Willow Room as ordered by his uncle [Hideyoshi](e2123.html).

Ohiroma Room

A long corridor then leads to a more recently added wing of the temple complex, where visitors are invited to enjoy some tea and a cookie in a large tatami hall. An adjacent building features rooms whose sliding doors (fusuma) are decorated by 20th century paintings of seasonal flowers and the story of Kobo Daishi, his journey to China and his founding of [Koyasan](e4900.html). Behind the building is the **Banryutei Rock Garden**, the largest rock garden in Japan. Built in 1984, its large rocks from [Shikoku](/list/e1107.html), the birthplace of Kobo Daishi, represent a pair of dragons emerging from a sea of clouds.

Upon returning to Kongobuji's main building, visitors pass by the extravagant **Jodannoma Audience Room** which was used for receiving visiting dignitaries. The room's walls and sliding doors are gilded in gold and the ceilings feature carved flowers. The visit ends in Kongobuji's **kitchen** with its enormous hearth and kamado stoves large enough to feed up to 2000 people.

Banryutei Rock Garden

Kongobuji stands in Koyasan's town center, a five minute walk from the Senjuinbashi intersection and just a few steps from the [Garan](e4902.html).

[How to get to and around Koyasan](e4904.html)