---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4650.html
title: Yakushima Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Yakushima Island, Kagoshima Prefecture.
keywords: yakushima, island, travel, sightseeing, guide, tourist, tourism, visitor, information, trip
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 357
char_count: 2757
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 22:43:43
---

Yakushima (屋久島) is a subtropical island off the southern coast of [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html) and part of [Kagoshima Prefecture](/list/e1246.html). It is covered by an extensive cedar forest that contains some of Japan's oldest living trees. Trees more than 1000 years old are affectionately called yakusugi (a combination of Yakushima and sugi, the Japanese word for cedar), the most ancient of which may be over 7000 years old.

The island's cedar forests were logged extensively in the past, particularly during the [late feudal age](e2128.html) for the production of cedar shingles. Today the forests have well recovered from past logging and are a [national park](e2325.html), while some areas were declared a [Natural World Heritage Site](e2251.html) in 1993. Most tourists come to the island to hike through the mountainous forests.

As a subtropical island with nearly 2000 meter high mountains, Yakushima attracts a lot of rainfall around the year, with a local saying claiming that it rains "35 days a month". While that may be an exaggeration, there is some rain almost on a daily basis, especially in the mountainous interior, although the rain can also be light and limited to short periods of time. In higher elevations the precipitation falls as snow during the winter months.

* [](/e/e4654.html)

  1

  Nature

  [Shiratani Unsuikyo••](/e/e4654.html)

  Inspiration for the film Princess Mononoke.

  4.6

  

  167
* [](/e/e4653.html)

  2

  Nature

  [Jomonsugi••](/e/e4653.html)

  A 2000 to 7200 year old cedar tree.

  4.4

  

  137
* [](/e/e4656.html)

  3

  Nature

  [Around the Island•](/e/e4656.html)

  Other attractions around the island.

  4.5

  

  186
* [](/e/e4655.html)

  4

  Nature

  [Yakusugi Land•](/e/e4655.html)

  Easy place to see Yakusugi on Yakushima.

  4.5

  

  121

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Yakushima](/e/e4650.html)

[Getting to and around Yakushima](/e/e4651.html)
[See access info](/e/e4651.html)