---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4605.html
title: Best cherry blossom spots in Kagoshima (Kagoshima Hanami Spots)
description: A list of popular hanami (cherry blossom viewing) spots in Kagoshima.
keywords: kagoshima, sakura, cherry, blossom, blossoms, hanami, spot, spots
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 1778
char_count: 12006
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:03:49
---

Below is a list of [Kagoshima](e4600.html)'s most popular spots for cherry blossom viewing ([hanami](e2011.html)), including the typical timing for best viewing in the average year and japan-guide.com ratings. See also our nationwide list of [famous cherry blossom spots](e2011_where.html).

* 

  Yoshino Park•

  Early April

  25 minutes by bus from Kagoshima Chuo Station  
  7:00 to 18:00 (March), 6:00 to 19:00 (April), free admission

  Yoshino Park is a large city park in northern [Kagoshima City](e4600.html). There are over 800 cherry trees throughout the park, most of which are in a grove at the southern corner of the park providing the ideal spot to hold cherry blossom viewing parties.
* 

  [Senganen Garden](e4602.html)

  Late January to early April

  30 minutes by bus from Kagoshima Chuo Station  
  9:00 to 17:00, 1600 yen

  Most of the cherry trees at [Senganen](e4602.html), a beautiful landscape garden north of the city center, are of the early blooming kanhizakura [variety](e2011_species.html) which has dark pink blossoms that open as early as late January. But there are also several somei yoshino trees that usually are in bloom in early April.
* 

  Kotsukigawa Riverside

  Early April

  A short walk from Kagoshima Chuo Station  
  No admission fee

  Just a short walk from Kagoshima Chuo Station, there are 500 cherry trees planted along the banks of the Kotsukigawa River. Space for picnics is available in small park areas.
* 

  Hirakawa Zoo

  Early April

  20 minute walk from JR Goino Station  
  9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30), 500 yen

  Hirakawa Zoo is a large zoo and amusement park located south of the city center. There are about 1000 cherry trees found here, most of them planted around a large lawn at the center of the zoo.
* 

  Sakurajima Dinosaur Park

  Early April

  A short walk from Sakurajima Ferry Terminal  
  No admission fee

  Sakurajima Dinosaur Park is located near the ferry terminal on [Sakurajima](e4601.html), the volcanic peninsula in Kagoshima Bay. The park is geared toward children and has a number of fiberglass dinosaur play structures among several hundred cherry trees.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

[How to get to and around Kagoshima](e4604.html)