---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4011.html
title: Shitennoji Temple
description: Visitor guide for Shitennoji, a famous Buddhist temple in Osaka.
keywords: shitennoji, temple, osaka
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 2653
char_count: 18322
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:52:05
---

Shitennoji (四天王寺, Shitennōji) is one of Japan's oldest [temples](e2058.html) and the first ever to be built by the state. It was founded in 593 by Prince Shotoku, who supported the introduction of [Buddhism](e2055.html) into Japan. Although the temple's buildings burned down several times over the centuries, they were always carefully reconstructed to reflect the original 6th century design.

The outer temple grounds are free to enter, but admission to the inner precinct, the Gokuraku-jodo Garden and the treasure house is paid. In the pebble-covered courtyard of the **inner precinct** stand a five-storied pagoda that can be entered and ascended and the Main Hall (Kondo) in which Prince Shotoku is enshrined as a statue of Kannon.

A short walk away, the **Gokuraku-jodo Garden** was designed based on descriptions of the Western Paradise of the Amida Buddha. Also on the temple grounds stands a **treasure house** that displays paintings, scriptures and other valuable belongings of the temple in periodic, themed exhibitions.

Gokuraku-jodo Garden

Shitennoji is a short walk from Shitennoji-mae-Yuhigaoka Station on the Tanimachi Subway Line. Alternatively, it can be reached in a ten minute walk north of [Tennoji Station](e4025.html) on the JR Osaka Loop Line.

[How to get to and around Osaka](e4006.html)