---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4630.html
title: Kirishima Shrine
description: Visitor guide for Kirishima Shrine, a prominent Shinto shrine in Kyushu, Japan.
keywords: kirishima, shrine, jingu
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 335
char_count: 2538
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:11:04
---

The mountains of [Kirishima](e4625.html) are an important site in the creation mythology of Japan. It was in this area that the god Ninigi no Mikoto, grandson of the sun goddess [Amaterasu](e2056.html), is said to have descended from heaven to rule over the earth.

Ninigi no Mikoto landed on nearby [Mt. Takachiho-no-mine](e4629.html) bringing with him the [three imperial regalia](e2135.html): the sword, the mirror and the gem. He eventually married a local princess, becoming mortal in the process, and established the lineage of [Japanese emperors](e2135.html).

Devoted to Ninigi no Mikoto, Kirishima Shrine (霧島神宮, Kirishima Jingū) was built during the [Muromachi Period](e2134.html) (1333-1573) on a different site from where it stands today. Since then it has been destroyed numerous times by volcanic eruptions, but always rebuilt. The current shrine was constructed in 1715 where it survives to this day. Its large, beautiful buildings are surrounded by forest and have been declared important cultural property.

Bus Network around Kirishima:

Despite being named after Kirishima Shrine ("Kirishima Jingu"), JR Kirishima Jingu Station is located more than five kilometers away from the shrine. Buses operate from the station to the shrine (15 minutes, 290 yen, one bus every 1-4 hours), and continue on to [Maruo Onsen](e4628.html) (30 minutes, 580 yen) and the Kirishima Iwasaki Hotel (35 minutes, 670 yen).

[How to get to and around Kirishima](e4626.html)