---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4491.html
title: How to get to and around Hirado\: Access, Transportation and Orientation
description: Access, orientation and transportation in Hirado.
keywords: Hirado, nagasaki, access, orientation, transportation, how, to, get, bus, train, directions
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 459
char_count: 3246
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:26:14
---

### How to get to Hirado

The closest railway station to Hirado is Tabira-Hiradoguchi Station (80 minutes, 1460 yen one way from Sasebo) from where travelers need to walk 100 meters to the Hiradoguchi Eki-mae bus stop (平戸口駅前) to catch a [bus](e2015.html) into [Hirado](e4490.html)'s city center (15 minutes, 350 yen one way, roughly hourly). Some of the buses - but not all - also stop at the Hiradoguchi Eki bus stop (平戸口駅) right in front of the station. An easier and cheaper approach from Sasebo is to take a direct [bus](e2015.html) from Sasebo Station to Hirado (90 minutes, 1800 yen one way, hourly). [JR passes](e2357.html) are not valid on the Matsuura Railway or the buses to Hirado.

Sasebo can be reached by hourly JR [limited express](e2016.html#category) trains from [Fukuoka](e2161.html)'s Hakata Station (two hours, around 4500 yen one way) or hourly JR Seaside Liner trains from [Nagasaki](e2162.html) (115 minutes, 1930 yen one way), while Nagasaki Airport and Sasebo are connected by airport [buses](e2015.html) (90 minutes, 1500 yen one way). The JR trains are covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and the [Kyushu Rail Pass](e2361_05.html), but the airport buses are not.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](/e/e2196.html).

[Hirado](e4491.html) is an island in northwestern [Nagasaki Prefecture](/list/e1240.html), about 30 kilometers long and 5 kilometers wide. It is connected to the mainland of [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html) by the Hirado Ohashi Bridge. Hirado is also the name of a city whose center lies at the island's eastern end, not far from the bridge. The rest of the island is rural. Hirado City also extends a little bit onto the mainland of Kyushu where the [Tabira Church](e4495.html) can be found.

Many of Hirado's major sightseeing spots, including the [Dutch Trading Post](e4493.html), [Hirado Castle](e4492.html) and the [Matsura History Museum](e4494.html), are found around the city center which good walkers can navigate entirely on foot. The bus terminal is called Hirado Sanbashi (平戸桟橋) and is located not far from the Dutch Trading Post. Hirado's other sites, however, are spread out around the region and are generally not well served by public transportation. A [rental car](e2024.html) is highly recommended for visiting these sites. Rental car outlets can be found in Sasebo or [Nagasaki](e2162.html).

Hirado Ohashi Bridge