---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4801.html
title: Seaside Momochi
description: Visitor guide for the Seaside Momochi waterfront district in Fukuoka.
keywords: momochi, fukuoka, district, waterfront, tower, hawks, town, dome, museum, city, 
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 2388
char_count: 16359
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:22:42
---

Seaside Momochi (シーサイドももち, Shīsaido Momochi) is [Fukuoka](e2161.html)'s waterfront located on reclaimed land along Hakata Bay. The area was originally developed as the site of the 1989 Asia Pacific Expo and was designed with attractive, modern features such as wide, tree-lined streets, futuristic buildings, public parks and no phone or electricity lines above ground.

Seaside Momochi is home to several attractive amusements including [beaches](e2461.html), museums and a variety of [shopping](e2450.html) and [dining](e620.html) options. The main attractions are centered around Fukuoka Tower and Fukuoka Paypay Dome, which are located about one kilometer apart:

* 

  Fukuoka Tower

  Hours: 9:30 to 22:00 (entry until 21:30)  
  Closed: The last Monday and Tuesday of June  
  Admission: 800 yen

  Built in 1989 to commemorate the 100th anniversary of Fukuoka City, Fukuoka Tower stands 234 meters tall and is far and away the city's highest building and Japan's tallest seaside tower. The tower is adorned in over 8000 mirrors and sports a three-storied observation deck at 123 meters above ground with good views over the city.
* 

  Momochihama Beach

  Hours: Beach always open, shops 10:00 to 20:00, restaurants 11:30 to 22:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free

  Momochihama Seaside Park is a one kilometer long stretch of artificial [beach](e2461.html) at the foot of Fukuoka Tower. At the center of the beach is Marizon, an artificial island featuring restaurants, shops, a wedding hall, and a ferry port with connections to [Uminonakamichi Seaside Park](e4810.html) across Hakata Bay. The beach is a popular spot for swimming and sports such as volleyball and soccer.
* 

  Fukuoka City Museum

  Hours: 9:30 to 17:30 (entry until 17:00)  
  Closed: Mondays (or next day if Monday is a [holiday](e2062.html)), Dec 28 to Jan 4  
  Admission: 200 yen (permanent exhibition)

  This history museum displays the cultural development of the local region with an emphasis on Fukuoka's role as a gateway for trade and culture exchange between Japan and the Korean Peninsula. The permanent exhibit is very well done with interactive exhibits and lots of English information.
* 

  Fukuoka Paypay Dome

  Fukuoka Paypay Dome is Japan’s first retractable roofed dome and multi-use arena. The seaside stadium is home to the Softbank Hawks [baseball team](e2081.html), which is the only professional baseball team on [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html). The stadium hosts events and concerts in addition to games.

The waterfront area can be reached in a 15-20 minute walk from Nishijin, Tojinmachi or Fujisaki subway stations. By [bus](e2015.html), it is about a 15-25 minute ride from Tenjin Station or about a 20-30 minute ride from Hakata Station (260 yen one way). There are many bus stops spread around the area. Particularly useful is bus line W1, which frequently operates between Tenjin, Fukuoka Dome, Fukuoka Tower and the Fujisaki Subway Station.

Seaside Momochi is also a 20 minute, 1200 yen [ferry](e2355.html) ride from [Uminonakamichi Seaside Park](e4810.html) across the bay. Ferries depart every 1-3 hours.

[How to get to and around Fukuoka](e4802.html)