---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4276.html
title: Tokyo to Kaga Onsen\: How to get to and around Kaga Onsen
description: How to get to and around Kaga Onsen.
keywords: kaga, onsen, orientation, transportation, access, get there, directions, hakusan, train, bus
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 501
char_count: 3925
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:18:13
---

From/To:

TokyoOsakaKyotoKanazawaNagoya

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

[Kaga Onsen](e4275.html) is connected directly to [Tokyo](e2164.html) by the [Hokuriku Shinkansen](e2018_nagano.html). The one way trip costs around 15,000 yen and takes just under three hours by the fastest [Kagayaki](e2018_nagano.html) trains, however there are only a couple of direct Kagayaki trains per day. Otherwise the trip takes around 3.5 hours and may involve a transfer of trains in [Toyama](e7500.html) or [Kanazawa](e2167.html). Kagayaki trains are fully reserved, while other trains along the [Hokuriku Shinkansen](e2018_nagano.html) also carry non-reserved seats. All trains are fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and [Hokuriku Arch Pass](e2361_arch.html).

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

[Kaga Onsen](e4275.html) consists of four [hot spring](e2292.html) towns, spread out over the plain and hills near the Sea of Japan coast.

The transportation hub is **Kaga Onsen Station** on the [JR Hokuriku Shinkansen](e2018_nagano.html) from where [buses](e2015.html) provide connections to many of the area's attractions. Among the buses is the **Can Bus** (キャン・バス), three tourist bus lines, which connects the station with the four hot spring towns and most other sights in the area. It costs 500 yen per ride:

* Sea Course (海まわり, Umimawari): serves the [Kutaniyaki Museum](e4283.html#kutaniyaki) in Daishoji, the [Kitamae Ships Museum](e4283.html#kitamae) in Hashidate and [Katayamazu Onsen](e4279.html). There is one bus every 1-2 hours.
* Mountain Course (山まわり, Yamamawari): serves [Yamashiro Onsen](e4277.html), [Yamanaka Onsen](e4280.html), [Natadera](e4281.html) and [Awazu Onsen](e4280.html). There is one bus every 2 hours.
* Komatsu Airport Course (小松空港線): serves [Katayamazu Onsen](e4279.html) and [Komatsu Airport](e4282.html). There is one bus every 2 hours.

Most attractions of [Hakusan City](e4284.html) lie in the mountains to the east of Kaga Onsen. There are no direct bus or train connections between Hakusan and Kaga Onsen, and travel usually leads via [Kanazawa](e2167.html) or Matto stations. Hokutetsu trains in the direction of [Mount Hakusan](e4285.html) go as far as **Tsurugi Station** from where there are infrequent buses further into the mountains.

A [rental car](e2024.html) can be convenient for exploring Kaga Onsen and Hakusan. Rental car outlets can be found in [Kanazawa](e2167.html), at Kaga Onsen Station, Matto Station and [Komatsu Airport](e4282.html).

Can Bus