---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4526.html
title: How to get to and around Minamata\: Access, Transportation and Orientation
description: Access, orientation and transportation in Minamata, Japan.
keywords: minamata, access, orientation, transportation, directions, get to, train, bus
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 318
char_count: 2386
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:11:55
---

### How to get to Minamata

Shin-Minamata Station is a station along the [JR Kyushu Shinkansen](e2018_kyushu.html), one hour south of [Fukuoka](e2161.html)'s Hakata Station (around 8000 yen one way) or half an hour north of [Kagoshima](e4600.html) (around 4500 yen one way). The [Kyushu Shinkansen](e2018_kyushu.html) is covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) (except [Mizuho](e2018_kyushu.html) trains, which require a supplement fee) and the [Kyushu Rail Pass](e2361_05.html) (all trains, but note that Minamata is not covered by the Northern Kyushu Rail Pass).

The closest [airport](e2365.html) to Minamata is Kagoshima Airport with [flight](e2365.html) connections to [Tokyo](e2164.html), [Osaka](e2157.html) and other [major cities](/list/e1003.html) across Japan. There are three direct buses per day between Kagoshima Airport and Minamata Station (2 hours, 1700 yen one way). Furthermore, various [rental car](e2024.html) companies have an outlet at Kagoshima Airport.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](/e/e2196.html).

Located in the city center, Minamata Station is served by the Hisatsu Orange Railway. The [Kyushu Shinkansen](e2018.html) stops at Shin-Minamata Station, about three kilometers east of the city center (5 minutes, 290 yen by Hisatsu Orange Railway, one train per hour). Note that the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) is not valid on the Hisatsu Orange Railway.

[Buses](e2015.html) connect Minamata Station with Shin-Minamata Station, [Yunotsuru Onsen](e4529.html) and [Yunoko Onsen](e4530.html). A [taxi](e2021.html) ride from the station to the [Eco Park](e4527.html) takes about five minutes and costs less than 1000 yen. Alternatively, the Eco Park can be reached on foot in about 20-30 minutes from Minamata Station. Electric rental [bicycles](e2210.html) are available at no cost from Shin-Minamata Station.