---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4117.html
title: Best cherry blossom spots in Nara (Nara Hanami Spots)
description: A list of popular hanami (cherry blossom viewing) spots in Nara.
keywords: nara, sakura, cherry, blossom, blossoms, hanami, spot, spots
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 1867
char_count: 12728
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:45:19
---

Below is a list of [Nara](e2165.html)'s most popular spots for cherry blossom viewing ([hanami](e2011.html)), including the typical timing for best viewing in the average year and japan-guide.com ratings. See also our nationwide list of [famous cherry blossom spots](e2011_where.html).

* 

  [Nara Park•](e4103.html)

  Early April

  Starts a five minute walk from Kintetsu Nara Station  
  Admission: free

  About 1700 cherry trees are planted across spacious [Nara Park](e4103.html), outnumbering the deer by a few hundreds. One of the most pleasant [hanami](e2011_how.html) spots in the park is a large lawn encircled by cherry trees, a short walk southeast of [Todaiji](e4100.html)'s main hall.
* 

  [Heijo Palace•](e4111.html)

  Early April

  15 minute walk from Yamato Saidaiji Station  
  Admission: free

  Quite a few cherry trees are planted on the large grounds of the former [Heijo Palace](e4111.html), making for some pleasant picnic opportunities. Because the trees are quite exposed to the weather, they typically open a couple of days later than the trees in nearby Nara Park.
* 

  Koriyama Castle Ruins•

  Early April

  Ten minute walk from Kintetsu Koriyama Station  
  Admission: free

  Koriyama Castle is mostly ruins now, but the walls and moat of the [castle](e2296.html) make an attractive setting for viewing the cherry blossoms. The castle is located approximately two kilometers south of [Yakushiji Temple](e4105.html), just outside the border of Nara City.
* 

  [Wakakusayama](e4113.html)

  Early April

  30-40 minute walk from Kintetsu Nara Station  
  9:00 to 17:00, 150 yen

  [Wakakusayama](e4113.html) is the grass covered hill behind [Nara Park](e4103.html) that gets lit on fire every January in the spectacular [Yamayaki](e4118.html) festival. Cherry trees are planted besides the hiking trail along the edge of Wakakusayama's main slope, allowing for some nice photos of cherry blossoms in combination with the city behind.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

[How to get to and around Nara](e4107.html)