---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4693.html
title: Beaches on Amami Oshima
description: A guide to beaches on Amami Oshima.
keywords: beach, beaches, amami, oshima, snorkel, snorkeling, sunbathing
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 406
char_count: 2948
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:19:12
---

[Amami Oshima](e4690.html)'s coastline features a host of beautiful, uncrowded [beaches](e2461.html) for sunbathing, swimming and [snorkeling](e2424_snorkeling.html). Many beaches provide little beyond a parking lot and public restrooms, if they have any facilities at all. The best time to go swimming is between May and October, when air and water temperatures are suitable for beach activities. When entering the water, beware of strong currents that can pull you out to sea and poisonous creatures.

Additionally, even more secluded beaches are found along the coast of Kakeromajima Island, a short [ferry](e2355.html) ride south of Amami Oshima.

* 

  Tomori Beach•••

  Facilities: small car park, restrooms

  Generally considered the best beach on the island, this idyllic beach is located just a ten minute drive north of the airport. The white sand and calm, clear waters with corals and aquatic life make this beach great for both sunbathing and [snorkeling](e2424_snorkeling.html). Visitors without a car should consider taking a [taxi](e2021.html) from the airport.
* 

  Ohama Beach•

  Facilities: car park, restrooms with showers, event space

  Located just outside of Amami City, this beach is covered with white sand up to the shore where the terrain becomes rocky. A quite extensive network of coral makes for good [snorkeling](e2424_snorkeling.html) opportunities with a variety of aquatic life. The beach is about a 3 kilometer walk from the Hiramatsucho bus stop at the western end of Amami City.
* 

  Kurasaki Beach

  Facilities: large car park

  A tranquil beach in the north of the island with a neighboring dive center and hotel, the white sand and calm waters make Kurasaki ideal for swimming and sunbathing. No bus access.
* 

  Sakibaru Beach

  Facilities: small car park

  This long sand beach in the north of the island is not accessible by bus and has few facilities. A peaceful backdrop for sunbathing.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

[How to get to around Amami Oshima](e4691.html)