---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4724.html
title: Rokugo Manzan Temples
description: Visitor guide for the temples on the Kunisaki Peninsula, and the Rokugo Manzan Buddhist culture
keywords: Rokugo, Manzan, temple, kunisaki, peninsula, hanto, futagoji, fukiji, makiodo, kumano, magaibutsu
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 816
char_count: 5651
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:16:10
---

Stone statues of Nio Guardians at Futagoji

The [Kunisaki Peninsula](e4720.html)'s terrain consists of the 721 meter tall Mount Futago at the center and a series of valleys radiating from it. The region's tranquil countryside is dotted with dozens of [temples](e2058.html) and some [shrines](e2059.html). It was traditionally divided into six areas and known as Rokugo Manzan (六郷満山), which literally means "Six Towns Full Mountain".

The unique local religious culture of Rokugo Manzan contains elements of [Buddhism](/e/e2055.html), [Shinto](/e/e2056.html) and mountain worship, and revolves around the peninsula's numerous [temples](e2058.html) and [Usa Shrine](e4722.html). A noteworthy characteristic of the Rokugo Manzan culture is the predominance of stone statues of Buddhas and other deities and guardians.

Stone statues at a slightly run down temple on the peninsula

Located close to the peak of Mount Futago is **Futagoji** (両子寺), a prominent [temple](e2058.html) with a history of more than 1300 years. Futagoji's grounds cover a wide area on the forested slopes of the mountain, with gravel paths and stairs connecting several halls housing various deities.

A pair of stone Nio Guardians stand at the start of the traditional [temple](e2058.html) approach below the parking lot, from where a ten minute ascent up a flight of steps takes you to the main temple buildings. Among them are the Gomado Hall (currently under scaffolding for renovations) which is dedicated to Fudomyoo, a protector of [Buddhism](e2055.html), and the Okunoin Hall, which enshrines the thousand-armed Kannon Bodhisattva. The more adventurous may climb up a slightly challenging path beyond the temple buildings to see several natural creations such as narrow openings through large rocks.

Gomado Hall at Futagoji

About 15 kilometers southwest of Futagoji stands **Fukiji Temple** (富貴寺), whose main hall is a designated national treasure. It is the oldest wooden structure existing in [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html), dating back to the late [Heian Period](e2132.html) (794-1185). The simple, beautiful wooden [temple](e2058.html) building sits serenely with a backdrop of trees, and is featured widely in pamphlets on the Rokugo Manzan area.

Fukiji is dedicated to Amida Buddha, and its main hall houses an intricate wooden statue of the deity. In fact, the hall is ranked as one of the top three Amida Buddha halls in all of Japan, along with Hoodo Hall at [Byodoin Temple](e3923.html) and the golden Konjikido Hall at [Chusonji Temple](e5001.html).

Fukiji

Located just by the main road about five kilometers south of Fukiji Temple is **Makiodo** (真木大堂, Maki Ōdō), a [temple](e2058.html) that displays some outstanding, wooden images of Amida Buddha, the four heavenly kings and Fudomyoo in its treasure house. The original temple hall was lost in a fire about 700 years ago, but fortunately the wooden statues were rescued.

Less than five kilometers south of Makiodo are the **Kumano Magaibutsu Stone Buddha** (熊野磨崖仏), two large stone carvings into the walls of a cliff: an eight meter tall Fudomyoo and a nearly seven meter tall Dainichi Buddha. They are the largest Buddhist stone carvings in Japan, but are not as intricately sculpted as the [Usuki Stone Buddhas](e4742.html), as they were carved into harder rock than the ones at [Usuki](e4740.html).

It is unknown when exactly these huge stone carvings were made, but it is estimated that they were created during the late [Heian Period](e2132.html). In order to see the carvings, visitors have to walk through the forest for about 20-30 minutes first along a gravel path and then along a steep flight of stairs.

Kumano Magaibutsu

It is very difficult to get to the temples of the [Kunisaki Peninsula](e4720.html) by public transport because not only do [buses](e2015.html) run infrequently, but transfers are needed, and there is rarely a suitable connection. The most convenient method to get around is a [rental car](e2024.html). Rental car outlets can be found at Oita Airport and in Usa and [Beppu](e4700.html).

Alternatively, 3-5 hour long [taxi](e2021.html) tours are available from Oita Airport. These chartered taxis offer several fixed itineraries which include some of the peninsula's [temples](e2058.html). Fees range from 16,000 to 27,000 yen per taxi, which accommodate four to five people. Note that the taxi drivers may not be able to converse in English.

There is also a daily guided bus tour of the Kunisaki Peninsula in [Japanese](e621.html), which covers [Usa Shrine](e4722.html) and the above mentioned temples. The bus departs from Oita Station and also stops at [Beppu](e4700.html) and Usa Stations before visiting the various shrines and temples and returning via Oita Airport to Beppu and Oita. The cost is between 3500 and 5700 yen depending on boarding and alighting stations.

[How to get to and around the Kunisaki Peninsula](e4721.html)