---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4452.html
title: Mount Unzen
description: Visior guide for Mount Unzen, an active volcano on the Shimabara Peninsula.
keywords: mount, unzen, shimabara, peninsula
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 702
char_count: 4914
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:08:47
---

Mount Unzen

Mount Unzen (雲仙岳, Unzendake) is an active [volcano](e2327.html) at the center of the [Shimabara Peninsula](e4450.html), which has erupted several times in the last few hundred years with deadly results. The [most recent eruption](e4455.html) occurred from 1990-1995 when pyroclastic flows (superheated volcanic gases) and mudslides raced down the mountain towards [Shimabara City](e4454.html), destroying buildings along the way. One of the pyroclastic flows killed several scientists, journalists and their drivers who tried to document the event, as well as firefighters.

Despite its reputation for destruction, Mount Unzen was recognized in 1934 for its natural beauty and made part of the Unzen Amakusa National Park, one of the first [national parks](e2325.html) in Japan. In spring Unzen's slopes are covered in pink azaleas, and summers on the mountain are mild and green. Also, due to its high elevation, Mount Unzen is one of the relatively few [autumn color](e2014.html) spots in [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html), usually at peak from late October to mid November.

The lower ropeway station covered in fog

Visitors to Mount Unzen can drive as far as **Nita-toge Pass** (using a one-way former toll road; an optional 100 yen cooperation fee is still requested), from where the **Unzen Ropeway** leads part way up the mountain slope. The lower and upper ropeway stations have observation decks with views over the surrounding mountains and the Ariake Sea all the way to [Kumamoto Prefecture](/list/e1244.html) on a clear day. The lower ropeway station has a large parking lot, shops, restaurants and the trailheads of hiking trails that lead up the mountain.

A popular **hiking route** leads from the upper ropeway station along the ridge to Fugendake (1359 m), the highest peak that you can climb to. From there you can look out just a few hundred meters away to the smoking summit of Heisei Shinzan (1486 m), the highest and newest peak on Mount Unzen that was formed when the volcano [last erupted](e4455.html) in the 1990s. It takes about one hour to hike between the upper ropeway station and Fugendake, plus an additional 20-40 minutes if you bypass the ropeway.

Heisei Shinzan (Heisei New Mountain), is named after the Heisei Period in which it was formed

A little ways down from the Nita-toge Pass lies [Unzen Onsen](e4453.html), a [hot spring town](e2292.html) that has nice baths and interesting hot spring fields. The town provides accommodation as well as convenient access from [Shimabara City](e4454.html), [Nagasaki](e2162.html) and [Fukuoka](e2161.html), making it a good base for climbing Mount Unzen.

Further down the mountain toward [Shimabara](e4454.html) is the **Heisei Shinzan Nature Center**, a small museum with displays about the mountain, the effects of the [disaster](e4455.html), and what is being done to monitor the mountain to prevent future catastrophe. A small network of walking trails leads around the center to viewpoints from where you can look out at the mountain. Note that the center is relatively far away and not directly accessible from Unzen Onsen. It must instead be approached from Shimabara City.

Heisei Shinzan Nature Center

[Unzen Onsen](e4453.html) is directly connected by bus to [Shimabara](e4454.html) (50 minutes, 850 yen, hourly departures), Isahaya (90 minutes, 1400 yen, hourly departures) and [Nagasaki](e2162.html) (100 minutes, 1850 yen, infrequent departures). Public transportation between the town and Nita-toge pass is not available. A [taxi](e2021.html) ride to the lower ropeway station costs about 3000 yen, while walking takes about one hour.

The Heisei Shinzan Nature Center is not directly accessible from the mountain top and must instead be approached from the coast. Public transportation is not available.

A [rental car](e2024.html) is recommended for a visit to Mount Unzen and the nature center.

[How to get to and around the Shimabara Peninsula](e4451.html)