---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4882.html
title: Yawata Steel Works
description: Visitor guide for the Yawata Steel Works in Kitakyushu City, Fukuoka Prefecture.
keywords: kitakyushu, yawata, steel, works, kokura, japan, fukuoka, industry, meiji, industrial, revolution, imperial, yahata, unesco, mill
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 521
char_count: 3717
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:08:13
---

Higashida Daiichi Blast Furnace

Located at a key junction of land and sea traffic, [Kitakyushu](e4875.html) is one of Japan's leading industrial centers and a hub of domestic and international trade. The city is home to a variety of industries, and visitors are sure to spot the numerous mills, factories and refineries lining the built-up sea shore.

Kitakyushu's quick march to industrialization occurred during the [Meiji Period](e2130.html). Due to its important seaport and proximity to a highly productive coal mine, Kitakyushu was selected as the site of the state-owned **Yawata Steel Works** (八幡製鐵所, Yahata Seitetsusho), the nation's first modern steel mill. The mill was desperately needed to meet the country's demand for metal to supply the burgeoning shipbuilding, railway, construction and armaments industries. At its peak, the mill was producing upwards of 90 percent of the nation's steel.

The mill has since passed into private ownership but is still in operation today. A few of the historic buildings from the [Meiji Period](e2130.html) remain preserved on its grounds, including the former head office, forge and repair shop which received [world heritage status](e2251.html) in summer 2015 among the [Sites of Japan's Meiji Industrial Revolution](e2252.html). As the mill still operates, it is not possible to approach or photograph these historic buildings; however, a special platform has been set up about 200 meters away from them where visitors can view the buildings from the distance.

Outside the boundaries of today's steel mill stands the mill's former **Higashida Daiichi Blast Furnace** (currently closed to the public indefinitely due to security concerns), which was originally built in 1901 and operated for about 70 years. Towering 30 meters high, the current structure has been repaired and upgraded mulitple times over the decades. Although it is not included in the list of world heritage sites, the well-preserved furnace is probably the most interesting industrial site for tourists in the area today, featuring multilingual explanatory boards about the steel making process.

Explanatory displays at the Higashida Daiichi Blast Furnace

The former Yawata Steel Works and Higashida Daiichi Blast Furnace are located near JR Space World Station, west of central Kitakyushu. Take the JR Kagoshima Main Line from Kokura Station (15 minutes, 340 yen) or [Fukuoka](e2161.html)'s Hakata Station (1 hour, 1300 yen) and get off at JR Space World Station from where the industrial sites can be reached on foot.

[How to get to and around Kitakyushu](e4876.html)