---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4741.html
title: How to get to and around Usuki\: Access, Transportation and Orientation
description: How to get to and around Usuki.
keywords: usuki, oita, access, orientation, transportation, directions, get there, train, bus
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 457
char_count: 3288
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:21:24
---

### How to get to Usuki

[Usuki](e4740.html) and Kami-Usuki are stations along the JR Nippo Line which connects Kokura Station in [Kitakyushu](e4875.html) with [Beppu](e4700.html), Oita and [Kagoshima](e4600.html). [Local](e2016.html) trains stop at Kami-Usuki Station, but [limited express](e2016.html) trains do not.

The JR trains to Usuki are covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and the full version of the [Kyushu Rail Pass](e2361_05.html), but note that the northern version of the latter is not valid south of Oita Station. Furthermore, note that the Kyushu Rail Pass is not valid on the [JR Sanyo Shinkansen](e2018_sanyo.html).

#### From Beppu   *([how to get to Beppu](e4705.html))*

Hourly [local](e2016.html) trains run from [Beppu](e4700.html) to Usuki Station (1090 yen, 60 minutes). Travel by [limited express](e2016.html) train (about 2500 yen, approximately 45 minutes) can be faster, but usually requires a transfer at Oita Station.

#### From Fukuoka   *([how to get to Fukuoka](e4802.html))*

Take a [limited express](e2016.html) train from [Fukuoka](e2161.html)'s Hakata Station to Oita Station (two hours) and transfer to another limited express or a local train to get to Usuki Station (45-60 minutes). There are about two connections per hour, and the whole trip takes approximately three hours and costs around 8000 yen.

#### From Shikoku

Uwajima Unyu Ferry and Orange Ferry each run multiple [ferries](e2355.html) per day between [Usuki](e4740.html) and Yawatahama on [Shikoku](/list/e1107.html). The one way ride takes approximately 2.5 hours and costs about 3500 yen in the cheapest class. The one way fee for a regular sized car is around 13,000 yen.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](/e/e2196.html).

The main attractions of Usuki are found in two separate areas: the [samurai district](e4743.html) in the city center and the [stone Buddhas](e4742.html) about five kilometers southwest of the city center.

The samurai district can be covered on foot from either Usuki or Kami-Usuki stations. [Buses](e2015.html) run from Usuki Station to the stone Buddhas only every 1-3 hours, and therefore a [taxi](e2021.html) (about 2500 yen one way from central Usuki) or a [rental car](e2024.html) are the more convenient options to get there. A Toyota rental car outlet can be found near Kami-Usuki Station, but outlets are more readily available at [Beppu](e4700.html), Oita and Oita Airport.

Bicycles can be borrowed for free at Usuki Station from 9:00 to 16:30.