---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4419.html
title: Nagasaki Prefectural Art Museum
description: Visitor guide for the Nagasaki Prefectural Art Museum.
keywords: nagasaki, art, museum, kuma, kengo, collection
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 1799
char_count: 12120
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:26:43
---

The Nagasaki Prefectural Art Museum (長崎県美術館, Nagasaki-ken Bijutsukan) is a modern and spacious complex attractively located by the port of [Nagasaki](e2162.html). The [museum](e2428.html), which was designed by famous [architect](e2111.html) Kuma Kengo, opened in 2005 and contains permanent collections of art related to Nagasaki as well as a large collection of Spanish art. In addition, it also hosts temporary exhibitions.

Made using glass and rock, the museum is airy and bright and contains multiple exhibition galleries. The Suma Collection features Spanish art ranging from medieval to contemporary works and contains pieces from legendary artists including Picasso. It is named after Suma Yakichiro who started the collection while serving as a diplomat in Spain during the 1940s. Another collection is dedicated to art relating to Nagasaki, including works by local artists.

One more appealing feature of the museum is its roof garden. The garden is made up of lawn space separated by a paved walkway. There are also a couple of seating areas with nice views of the port and city. The roof garden can be accessed from both inside and outside the museum, meaning that it is not exclusively open to museum patrons.

The roof garden

The Nagasaki Prefectural Art Museum is located a five minute walk from both the [Dejima](e4408.html) tram stop (5 minutes from Nagasaki Station) and the Medical Center tram stop.

[How to get to and around Nagasaki](e4410.html)