---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4031.html
title: Kuromon Market
description: Visitor guide for Osaka's Kuromon Market.
keywords: kuromon, market, ichiba, osaka, food
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 2687
char_count: 18506
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:51:47
---

Kuromon Market (黒門市場, Kuromon Ichiba) is a covered [public market](e2452.html) that stretches around 600 meters parallel to Sakaisujidori Street in the [Minami](e4001.html) area of [Osaka](e2157.html). The market has about 150 shops that predominantly sell fish, meat and produce, with other shops also purveying traditional [sweets](e2312.html) and low priced clothes and homeware. The market dates back to the [Edo Period](e2128.html), and today makes for an atmospheric place to stroll around and try street foods.

One of the numerous charms of the market is the way in which many of its shops not only sell larger food quantities for later consumption, but also smaller portions that can be eaten then and there. Some of the foods on offer are grilled seafood including crab legs and oysters, [yakitori](/r/e102.html), [sea urchin](e2044.html), [sushi](e2038.html), [eel](e2344.html), seasonal [fruits](e2347.html), and the street food staple [takoyaki](e2316.html).

Note that Kuromon Market can get crowded. When eating street food, make sure not to walk while eating, not to obstruct the flow of traffic, to properly dispose of your garbage and to handle your food carefully so not to soil the clothes of bypassers. The inconsiderate behavior of some tourists has been a cause of displeasure among some locals.

Visitors weighing up the market's food options

Kuromon Market is a few steps from Nipponbashi Station on the Sennichimae and Sakaisuji subway lines. Alternatively, it is a ten minute walk from [Namba](e4001.html) Station.

[How to get to and around Osaka](e4006.html)