---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4552.html
title: Mount Aso
description: Visitor guide for Mount Aso, an active volcano in central Kyushu.
keywords: aso, mount, asosan, mountain, volcano, nakadake
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 1899
char_count: 12314
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:23:58
---

Mount Aso's smoking Nakadake Crater

Volcanic Activity Update

Updated: December 1, 2025

The no-entry zone around Mount Aso's crater was lifted on July 25, 2025, and it is now possible to view the crater again (unless gas levels are temporarily too high, or the weather or visibility are bad).

Mount Aso (阿蘇山, Asosan) is an active [volcano](e2327.html) in the center of [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html) which most recently erupted in 2021 and 2016. Aso's ancient caldera ranks among the world's largest, with a diameter of up to 25 kilometers and a circumference of over 100 kilometers. In the center of the caldera stand the mountain's active volcanic peaks, including **Mount Nakadake**, whose spectacular crater is accessible to tourists.

Note, however, that the crater area is often partially and **sometimes completely closed off** to visitors due to poisonous volcanic gases, bad weather or the risk of volcanic activity. So, make sure to [check the volcano's current state](#section_links) before traveling there. Even when the area around the summit is open, gases can be intense, and people with respiratory problems should refrain from approaching the crater.

Viewing area around the crater

Besides the easily accessible crater viewing area, there is also a network of [hiking](e2427.html) trails that leads to Mount Aso's various peaks. Perhaps the most rewarding of them leads from a parking lot near the crater to the Nakadake summit of Mount Aso, which towers about 350 meters above the crater and allows for spectacular views over the volcanic landscape.

The ascent takes about 90 minutes and includes a very steep section. From the Nakadake peak it is possible to hike down a further 20 minutes to a viewpoint closer to the crater or up to the Takadake summit, the highest peak of Mount Aso. Many sections of the trail are covered by loose volcanic stones. Proper preparation and footwear are required. The trail gets partially or fully closed when the volcanic alert level is raised.

View from the Nakadake peak

Not far from the Nakadake crater, **Kusasenri** (or Kusasenri-ga-hama) is a grass-covered plain, which offers some easier walking opportunities and a few horses. Horse riding is possible from early March to mid December. On the opposite side of the road stands the Aso Volcano Museum with explanations about the volcano.

**Komezuka** is a small, beautifully shaped volcanic cone on the northern slopes of Nakadake. There are pleasant walking trails in the vicinity (but not to the top) of Komezuka, however, easy access by public transportation is not provided.

Kusasenri

Make sure to check the [volcano's current state](#section_links) before your visit. During times of heightened volcanic activity, the crater can be off-limits and the road and walking trail to the crater closed.

### By bus

[Buses](e2015.html) depart JR Aso Station every 1-2 hours for the Asosanjo Terminal (1000 yen one way) near the Nakadake Crater, stopping at Kusasenri (1000 yen) along the way. The ride is not covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html). From Asosanjo Terminal, a shuttle bus gets visitors to the crater (700 yen one way). Alternatively you can walk to the crater in about 30-40 minutes one way.

### By car

[Cars](e2024.html) can drive all the way to a parking lot just next to the crater, but must pay 1000 yen per car (round trip) for the last kilometers, which is a toll road.

[How to get to and around Aso](e4551.html)