---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4259.html
title: Myojoji Temple
description: About Myojoji Temple, the head temple of the Nichiren sect of Japanese Buddhism for the Hokuriku region.
keywords: japan, noto, hanto, peninsula, myojoji, temple, nichiren, sect, buddhism, head, hokuriku
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 464
char_count: 3202
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:17:17
---

[2024 Noto Peninsula Earthquake

A strong earthquake hit the Noto Peninsula on New Year's Day. Read our update for travelers.](/news/alerts.html)

Myojoji Temple (妙成寺, Myōjōji) serves as the head [temple](e2058.html) of the [Nichiren sect](e2055.html) in the Hokuriku Region, which is composed of the northern part of the [Chubu Region](/list/e1104.html). The temple was founded in 1294 by the Saint Nichizo, who was a disciple of Nichiren himself.

Myojoji consists of a large complex of buildings set on top of a hill. Most of the present buildings date back to the 17th century, and the oldest, the priest's living quarters, was built in 1593. The temple buildings were constructed under the patronage of the Maeda Clan, that ruled the Kaga domain (present day [Ishikawa Prefecture](/list/e1222.html)) and was surpassed in wealth only by the [Tokugawa](e2128.html).

Myojoji's pagoda visible from the temple's garden

The most striking feature of the temple is its five storied pagoda, which dates back to 1618 and stands almost 35 meters tall. The pagoda can be seen in the air when first approaching the temple grounds. To the right of the steps, that lead up to the pagoda, there is a statue of Nichizo, the temple's founder.

The temple's main gate contains statues of the Buddha's guardian deities and dates back to 1625, while the temple's Hondo ("main hall"), located near the center of the complex, was constructed in 1614. At the back of the temple, near the pagoda, there are a few small graveyards. Also on the temple grounds is a pleasant garden that has a view of the five story pagoda framed by tree branches.

The Main Hall (Hondo)

Myojoji can be reached by bus from Hakui Station on the JR Nanao Line (55 minutes and 830 yen from [Kanazawa](e2167.html) or 45 minutes and 590 yen from [Wakura Onsen](e4256.html)). From Hakui Station, take a bus bound for either Takahama or Togi and get off at Mōjōji-guchi (妙成寺口, 20 minutes, 440 yen, hourly departures). The temple is about a ten minute walk from the bus stop.

[How to get to and around the Noto Peninsula](e4251.html)