---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4025.html
title: Tennoji
description: Visitor guide for the Tennoji district in southeastern Osaka.
keywords: tennoji, osaka, abenobashi, abeno
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 2980
char_count: 20494
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:52:32
---

Abeno Harukas seen from Abeno Cues Town

Located in the southeast of central [Osaka](e2157.html), the Tennoji (天王寺, Tennōji) and neighboring Abeno districts are home to [Abeno Harukas](e4026.html), one of Japan's tallest skyscrapers. Tennoji Station is one of Osaka's largest transportation hubs, served by multiple [JR](e2019.html) and subway lines. Kintetsu Osaka Abenobashi Station is just across the street.

The area south of Tennoji Station has undergone redevelopment in recent years, revitalizing the district. With about seven malls in the immediate vicinity of the station, there is a wide range of [shopping](e4013.html) opportunities. Other nearby attractions include [Shitennoji Temple](e4011.html) and Tennoji Park with a zoological garden and an art museum. West of the park lies [Shinsekai](e4012.html), a uniquely Osakan dining and entertainment district.

* 

  [Abeno Harukas](e4026.html)

  Observatory: 9:00 to 22:00  
  Shopping: 10:00 to 20:00  
  Restaurants: 11:00 to 23:00

  Standing at 300 meters, [Abeno Harukas](e4026.html) used to be Japan's tallest skyscraper until 2023. Besides many floors of office space, the complex offers Kintetsu's flagship [department store](e2072.html), the [Osaka Marriott Miyako Hotel](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/osaka-marriott-miyako.html?aid=371183), an art museum and a top-floor observatory.
* 

  Mio Tennoji

  Shopping: 10:30 to 20:30  
  Restaurants: 11:00 to 23:00

  Located in the JR Tennoji Station complex, Mio Tennoji consists of a main building and a plaza building. The main building offers twelve floors of shopping with two floors of restaurants, while the plaza building has eleven floors of shops with the top four floors occupied by an electronics chain shop, schools and clinics.
* 

  Abeno Q's Mall

  Shopping: 10:00 to 21:00  
  Restaurants: 10:00 to 22:00 (some restaurants until 23:00)

  Abeno Q's Mall offers five floors of shopping with a wide variety of tenants. There is a food court (Q's kitchen) on the third floor and a restaurant level (Q's dining) on the fourth. Major tenants include Tokyu Hands, Ito Yokado and Uniqlo.
* 

  [Shitennoji Temple](e4011.html)

  [Shitennoji Temple](e4011.html) is one of Japan's oldest [temples](e2058.html) and the first ever built by the state government. The outer temple grounds are free to enter but admission charges apply to enter the inner precinct. Also paid is admission to the Gokuraku-jodo Garden, which was designed based on descriptions of the Western Paradise of the [Amida Buddha](e2055.html).

**JR Tennoji Station** is one of the major stations on the Osaka Loop Line with direct JR connections to [Nara](e2165.html), [Kansai Airport](e2033.html) and Wakayama. **Kintetsu Osaka Abenobashi Station** is the terminal station for Kintetsu trains to [Asuka](e4175.html) and [Yoshino](e4150.html). It is located beneath the Abeno Harukas building, across the street from JR Tennoji Station.

### From Osaka Station

15 minutes, 240 yen from JR Osaka Station. Alternatively, 15 minutes, 290 yen from Umeda Station on the Midosuji Subway Line. Get off at Tennoji Station.

### From Namba Station

5 minutes, 180 yen from JR Namba Station. Alternatively, 5 minutes, 240 yen from Namba Station on the Midosuji Subway Line. Get off at Tennoji Station.

[How to get to and around Osaka](e4006.html)