---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4024.html
title: Tenma (Osaka Tenmangu Shrine and Tenjinbashi-suji Shopping Street)
description: Visitor guide for the Tenma district in Osaka, known for Osaka Tenmangu Shrine, which is the center of the Tenjin Festival, and Tenjinbashi-suji Shopping Street, which is touted to be Japan's longest shopping street.
keywords: osaka, tenma, temma, temmangu, tenmangu, shrine, tenjin, festival, matsuri, tenjinbashi, suji, tenjinbashi-suji, shopping, street
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 2909
char_count: 20103
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:52:45
---

Tenma (天満) is a neighborhood to the east of [Osaka](e2157.html)'s [Kita](e4009.html) district. The area is best known for being the home of Osaka Tenmangu Shrine, from which the neighborhood got its name, and the Tenjinbashi-suji shopping street. The area is also renowned for its bustling nightlife quarter.

**Tenjinbashi-suji Shopping Street** claims to be the longest in Japan. The covered arcade stretches more than two kilometers, starting approximately from Tenjimbashi-suji Rokuchome Subway Station and leading south until close to the Tenjinbashi Bridge.

The [shopping](e4013.html) street has a neighborhood atmosphere and is where locals shop for goods such as groceries, clothes, shoes, books, medicine, snacks and sundries. Prices for fashion products are relatively low in return for average quality. There are also many eateries and cafes.

Osaka Tenmangu Shrine

**Osaka Tenmangu Shrine**, founded in the 10th century, is one of the most important of hundreds of [shrines](e2059.html) across Japan that are devoted to Tenjin, the [Shinto](e2056.html) deity of scholarship, who in turn has been associated with the [Heian Period](e2132.html) scholar [Sugawara Michizane](e4851.html). Osaka Tenmangu Shrine has been destroyed by fire a number of times during its history, and its current main hall (honden) and main gate date back to 1845.

Osaka Tenmangu is famous for its [festival](e2063.html), the [Tenjin Matsuri](e4023.html), which is held annually on July 24 and 25 and is ranked as one of Japan's top three festivals besides [Kyoto](e2158.html)'s [Gion Matsuri](e3942.html) and [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s [Kanda Matsuri](e3073.html). During the festival, the shrine's deity is paraded in a divine palanquin (mikoshi) through the city in a joyful land and river procession, accompanied by [fireworks](e2267.html).

Crowds gather at the shrine grounds during the Tenjin Matsuri

The **Osaka Museum of Housing and Living**, situated along the shopping street, presents a glimpse of the streets of [Osaka](e2157.html) during the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868) through recreated houses which visitors can enter. English audio guides depict the housing conditions in the past, and visitors can rent [kimono](e2101.html) for picture taking or just strolling along the streets.

Come the evening, Tenma's character changes as the maze of narrow streets and alleys that emanate from Tenma Station's north exit come to life. Diners can select from a wide selection of hole-in-the-wall [bars and restaurants](e2036.html) near the station and more stylish and fashionable establishments further away. A wide variety of cuisines are offered.

Tenma at night

The Tenjinbashi-suji Shopping Street starts around Tenjimbashi-suji Rokuchome Station on the Tanimachi and Sakaisuji subway lines, runs south and passes by Osaka Tenmangu Shrine before ending around the Tenjinbashi Bridge. The closest station to Tenmangu Shrine is Minamimorimachi Station on the Tanimachi and Sakaisuji subway lines and Osaka Temmangu Station on the JR Tozai Line. Many of the area's bars and restaurants are clustered within walking distance of the north exit of Tenma Station on the JR Osaka Loop Line.

[How to get to and around Osaka](e4006.html)