---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4018.html
title: Best cherry blossom spots in Osaka (Osaka Hanami Spots)
description: A list of popular hanami (cherry blossom viewing) spots in Osaka.
keywords: osaka, sakura, cherry, blossom, blossoms, hanami, spot, spots
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 2854
char_count: 19592
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:51:42
---

[Osaka](e2157.html) is one of Japan's best cities for cherry blossom viewing ([hanami](e2011.html)). Below is a list of the city's most popular hanami spots, including the typical timing for best viewing in the average year and japan-guide.com ratings. See also our nationwide list of [cherry blossom spots](e2011_where.html).

* 

  Kema Sakuranomiya Park•••

  Early April

  Sakuranomiya Station (JR Loop Line), free admission

  Nearly 5000 cherry trees line Okawa River for several kilometers. The seemingly endless rows of cherry trees can be viewed from a pleasant riverside promenade or from ships cruising the river. There are also lawn areas with a lot of space for picnics.
* 

  [Osaka Castle••](e4000.html)

  Early April

  Free admission except for the Nishinomaru Garden  
  Nishinomaru Garden: 9:00 to 17:00, 350 yen during cherry blossom season  
  Nishinomaru illumination 2025: 3/22 to 4/13, 18:00 to 21:00 (entry until 20:30)

  Over 4000 cherry trees are planted on the spacious grounds of [Osaka Castle](e4000.html). A particularly nice place for a picnic is Nishinomaru Park in the castle's western citadel with wide lawns, views of the castle tower and light up in the evening.
* 

  [Expo 70 Commemorative Park••](e4029.html)

  Early April

  Banpaku Kinen Koen Station (Osaka Monorail)  
  9:30 to 17:00, 260 yen, no closing days during hanami season (except 2025/3/26)  
  Illumination 2025: 3/28 to 4/8, 18:00 to 21:00 (entry until 20:30)

  The [former site of the 1970 World Exhibition](e4029.html) in Osaka was turned into a large public park with over 5000 cherry trees along its paths and around its large lawn areas. There is light up in the evenings.
* 

  [Osaka Mint Bureau••](e4008.html)

  Mid April

  10 minute walk from Temmabashi Station, free admission  
  Mint Museum: 9:00 to 16:45 (entry until 16:00), closed during special cherry blossom opening period and the day before special opening period  
  2025 special opening: 4/5 to 4/11; [advance reservations](https://sakura-ev25.mint.go.jp/) required

  More than 300 trees of over 100 varieties, mostly later blooming [yae-zakura](e2011_species.html) trees can be viewed on the premises of the [Osaka Mint Bureau](e4008.html). The gates of the garden are opened to the general public for one week in mid April. The garden can also be viewed on the occasion of a visit to the Mint Museum outside of the special opening period.
* 

  Tsurumi Ryokuchi Park•

  Early April

  Tsurumi Ryokuchi Subway Station, free admission

  This large public park served as the site of a flower exhibition in 1990. Hundreds of cherry trees are planted across the park, offering visitors lots of attractive picnic spots. There are also about 50 small, representative gardens from countries across the world.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

[How to get to and around Osaka](e4006.html)


[Read our Osaka Hotel Guide](/hotels/osaka.html)

* + [

    Sponsored](/link.html?/e/e4018.html+hotel+kaneyoshi+1+6+sponsored+https://kaneyosi.jp/)

    [Kaneyoshi Ryokan](/link.html?/e/e4018.html+hotel+kaneyoshi+1+6+sponsored+https://kaneyosi.jp/)

    A modern Japanese inn in Dotombori. the center of Osaka. 2 subway stations nearby. Close to many shops and Osaka Castle.

    [View site](/link.html?/e/e4018.html+hotel+kaneyoshi+1+6+sponsored+https://kaneyosi.jp/)

    Sponsored