---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4304.html
title: Nagoya to Ise Shima\: How to get to and around Ise Shima
description: How to get to and around Ise and the Shima Peninsula.
keywords: ise, shima, toba, peninsula, access, orientation, transportation, directions, train, bus, kintetsu
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 1986
char_count: 12981
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:11:24
---

From/To:

NagoyaOsakaKyotoTokyo

Direct Kintetsu limited express trains ([tokkyu](e2016.html)) connect [Nagoya](e2155.html) and [Ise](e4301.html) (Iseshi or Ujiyamada Station) in 80 minutes. The one way fare is 3080 yen. All seats are reserved. Many trains continue to Toba and Kashikojima. By slower express trains ([kyuko](e2016.html)), the trip takes about 100 minutes, but costs only 1740 yen. There is one direct connection per hour, and several more connections which require one transfer of trains at Ise-Nakagawa Station. All seats are non-reserved.

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)(520 yen supplement required)

Direct "Mie" rapid trains ([kaisoku](e2016.html)) require roughly 90 minutes for the journey between [Nagoya](e2155.html) and [Ise](e4301.html) (Iseshi Station). The one way trip costs 2040 yen. There is about one train per hour. Most trains continue to Toba. Note to [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) holders: Because the "Mie" rapid train [partially uses non-JR tracks](e2368.html), pass holders have to pay a supplemental fee of 520 yen (one way) on board of the train.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

Most attractions on the [Shima Peninsula](e4310.html) are easily accessible by [train](e2019.html), i.e. the JR Sangu Line which connects Ise with Toba, and the Kintetsu Shima Line which also runs from Ise to Toba and then continues to Kashikojima at [Ago Bay](e4307.html). Nevertheless, a [rental car](e2024.html) can be even more convenient for exploring the peninsula.

#### Ise City

[Ise](e4301.html) has two main [railway](e2019.html) stations: **Iseshi Station** is served by both Japan Railways (JR) and Kintetsu Railway, while nearby **Ujiyamada Station** is only served by Kintetsu Railway and the more convenient station if you arrive and/or depart by Kintetsu.

Ise's [Outer Shrine](e4311.html) is located in the city center, a 5-10 minute walk from either Iseshi or Ujiyamada Station. In contrast, the [Inner Shrine](e4300.html) stands several kilometers outside of the city center and can be reached in a 10-15 minute bus ride from the stations and the Outer Shrine.

The **CAN Bus** is a bus for tourists which connects Ise's railway stations with most of the city's main attractions (including the [Ise Shrines](e4300.html), [Edo Wonderland](e4305.html) and the [Meoto Iwa Rocks](e4303.html)) and Toba once or twice per hour. A pass for unlimited use of the CAN bus and other local buses in the the Ise and Toba area, called Michikusa Pass, is available for 1300 yen for one day or 1900 yen for two days.

#### Toba City

Toba can be reached in 15 minutes from Ise by JR or Kintetsu trains (240 yen and 390 yen respectively). Both railway companies use Toba Station in the city center. Toba's main attractions, the [Mikimoto Pearl Island](e4306.html) and [Toba Aquarium](e4309.html), stand close to each other along the waterfront of Toba Bay, a 5-10 minute walk from Toba Station.

#### Shima City

The Kintetsu Shima Line continues to run from Toba southwards to Shima City where it terminates at Kashikojima Station at the shores of [Ago Bay](e4307.html). The one way trip from Toba takes 30 to 45 minutes and costs 1080 or 560 yen, depending on whether you ride a [limited express](e2016.html) or [local train](e2016.html). There are multiple connections per hour.