---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4022.html
title: Osaka Food Guide
description: Introduction to some of the most popular local dishes of Osaka.
keywords: osaka, food, guide, cuisine, dishes, takoyaki, okonomiyaki, kushikatsu, teppanyaki, kitsune, udon
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 2912
char_count: 20024
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:52:29
---

Food alley at Shinsekai

It has been said that the people of [Osaka](e2157.html) spend more on [food](e620.html) than on anything else, and the term "kuidaore" ("eat until you drop") is used to describe the food culture here. At the same time, the locals have high expectations towards the quality of their cuisine, and [restaurants](e2036.html) have to maintain high standards or face closure.

Not surprisingly, Osaka is famous for various local dishes, some of which have attained nationwide and even international fame. Luckily for the [budget traveler](e2028.html), most of these dishes are economical fares:

* 

  [Takoyaki](e2316.html)

  [Takoyaki](e2316.html) literally means "grilled octopus". A flour and egg based batter is cooked with a filling of octopus slices, pickled ginger and green onion, using a special takoyaki pan which molds the ingredients into small balls. Takoyaki sauce and other toppings such as [mayonnaise](e2313.html#mayo), green laver ([aonori](e2313.html#aonori)) and dried bonito ([katsuobushi](e2313.html#katsuobushi)) are then added to complete this popular street snack.
* 

  [Okonomiyaki](/r/e100.html)

  [Okonomiyaki](/r/e100.html) is a pancake-like dish popular in various styles across Japan. In [Osaka](e2157.html), shredded cabbage and other ingredients such as squid, prawn, octopus or meat are mixed into a flour-based batter and cooked before eaten with [okonomiyaki sauce](e2313.html#sauce), [mayonnaise](e2313.html#mayo), green laver ([aonori](e2313.html#aonori)) and dried bonito ([katsuobushi](e2313.html#katsuobushi)). In some restaurants, customers prepare their okonomiyaki on a hot plate at their table.
* 

  Kushikatsu

  Kushikatsu are battered and deep fried pieces of food on skewers. Meat and [vegetables](e2346.html) are the most common ingredients for kushikatsu, but some restaurants also have more exotic varieties such as strawberries on their menus. [Shinsekai](e4012.html) is the best place to enjoy kushikatsu in a nostalgic Osaka atmosphere.
* 

  Kitsune Udon

  Kitsune Udon is a simple dish of [udon](/r/e105.html) (thick wheat noodles) served in a hot soup with a piece of deep fried [tofu](e2045_tofu.html) (aburaage). Kitsune means "fox" in Japanese, and the dish is thus named because fried tofu is believed to be a fox's favorite.
* 

  Teppanyaki

  Teppanyaki means "grilling on a metal plate", referring to the style of cooking a meal on an iron griddle in the presence of a customer. At teppanyaki [restaurants](e2036.html), diners are seated at the counter, where the chef prepares the food and then serves it immediately. Part of the enjoyment is derived from the sight of the chef skillfully maneuvering the ingredients. A large variety of ingredients may be used, but the main dish is typically a piece of high grade beef or seafood.

### Where to eat

The best place to experience [Osaka](e2157.html)'s food culture is the neon-laden [Dotonbori](e4001.html) district near Namba Station, which is packed with all types of eateries along its main thoroughfare and many side streets.

For a nostalgic atmosphere of past decades, the [Shinsekai](e4012.html) district with its kushikatsu shops and shogi parlors cannot be beaten. Another major dining district is [Kitashinchi](e4009.html#kitashinchi), a ten minute walk south of Osaka Station, while [Osaka Station City](e4020.html) itself is a safe destination for the less adventurous diners with its multiple elegant restaurant floors.

Dotonbori

[How to get to and around Osaka](e4006.html)


[Read our Osaka Hotel Guide](/hotels/osaka.html)

* + [

    Sponsored](/link.html?/e/e4022.html+hotel+kaneyoshi+1+6+sponsored+https://kaneyosi.jp/)

    [Kaneyoshi Ryokan](/link.html?/e/e4022.html+hotel+kaneyoshi+1+6+sponsored+https://kaneyosi.jp/)

    A modern Japanese inn in Dotombori. the center of Osaka. 2 subway stations nearby. Close to many shops and Osaka Castle.

    [View site](/link.html?/e/e4022.html+hotel+kaneyoshi+1+6+sponsored+https://kaneyosi.jp/)

    Sponsored