---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4959.html
title: Kumano City
description: Visitor guide for Kumano City in Mie Prefecture.
keywords: kumano, city, walking, trail, magose, matsumoto, toge, wakayama, onsen, south, honshu, kii, peninsula
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 659
char_count: 4463
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:20:41
---

Matsumoto Pass

Kumano City (熊野) is located in [Mie Prefecture](/list/e1225.html), about 20 kilometers from the [Wakayama](/list/e1229.html) border. Although it shares its name with the greater [Kumano region](e4950.html), with a population of only 20,000 it is by no means the principal center of activity. It is still of considerable interest to travelers for its [trails](e4952.html), rock formations and [shrine](e2059.html).

Kumano City is located along the former [Iseji pilgrimage route](e4952.html), which connected the Kumano shrines with [Ise](e4301.html). Only isolated sections of the route have been preserved. Among them is the **Matsumoto Pass** trail in Kumano City. The preserved section of the trail is one kilometer long and reaches an elevation of about 100 meters when traversing the Matsumoto Pass.

Magose Pass

A further 30 kilometers north of Kumano City, in Owase City (尾鷲), the **Magose Pass** trail is considered the most picturesque hike along the [Iseji](e4952.html) by many. The majority of the trail leads through the forest, and hikers will reach an elevation of over 300 meters when crossing the Magose Pass. The preserved section stretches for over two kilometers.

Like the other cities in the area, Kumano City is known for some of the unique **rock formations** on its coastline. The Onigajo Rocks were believed to be the dwellings of demons, while the Shishi Rock resembles a lion looking out to sea. Both rock formations take their names from their assumed attributes.

Onigajo Rocks

About a kilometer south of Kumano's city center stands **Hana no Iwaya Shrine**. According to legend, this ancient [shrine](e2059.html) is the location of the grave of Izanami, the deity who created the earth together with her husband Izanagi. The shrine is believed to be so old that its foundation even precedes the three [Kumano](e4950.html) shrines.

On the shrine grounds there is a massive, sacred rock that stands 45 meters high. Like the giant waterfall of [Nachi Taisha](e4955.html), the rock is believed to have been revered by the pre-historic Japanese. In a unique [festival](e2063.html), a giant rope is pulled from the shrine grounds to the nearby [beach](e2461.html) every year on February 2 and October 2.

Hana no Iwaya Shrine

Kumano-shi is a major station on the JR Kisei Line, served by both [limited express](e2016.html#category) trains and local trains.

Hana no Iwaya Shrine can be reached from Kumano-shi Station by hourly departing [buses](e2015.html) in five minutes and for 210 yen one way. To access the Onigajo Rocks, take a bus to Onigajo-higashi-guchi bus stop (5 minutes, 190 yen from Kumano-shi Station, one bus every 2 hours), from where you can reach the rocks in a 10 minute walk.

### Matsumoto Pass Walk

An easy way of enjoying the Matsumoto Pass trail is to walk between Kumano-shi Station and the next station to the north, Odomari Station. The distance between the two stations is about three kilometers, and the walk takes approximately one hour.

### Magose Pass Walk

Magose Pass is located in Owase City, 30 minute and about 1500 yen north of Kumano City by [limited express](e2016.html#category) train (or 45 minutes, 590 yen by local train). An easy way of enjoying the Magose Pass trail is to walk between Owase Station and the next station to the north, Aiga Station. The distance between the two stations is about 6.5 kilometers, and the walk takes approximately 2.5 hours.

[How to get to and around Kumano](e4951.html)