---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4325.html
title: Formula 1 Japan Grand Prix Suzuka
description: About the Japan Grand Prix of the Formula 1 World Championship Series held in Suzuka.
keywords: suzuka, circuit, race, f1, formula, one, grand, prix, japan
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 636
char_count: 4212
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:38:05
---

**The most recent Japan Grand Prix was held at Suzuka on April 6, 2025**

Suzuka Circuit (鈴鹿サーキット) is a race circuit in [Mie Prefecture](/list/e1225.html), 50 kilometers south of [Nagoya](e2155.html), and one of the two venues, which staged the Formula One Japanese Grand Prix in recent years. The other is [Fuji Speedway](e6390.html) in [Shizuoka Prefecture](/list/e1218.html).

The first Formula One race in Japan was staged in 1976 at the Fuji Speedway. Since 1987 the Japan Grand Prix has been held annually at the Suzuka Circuit except for two races in 2007 and 2008 which were held at the Fuji Speedway.

Suzuka is located about 50 kilometers south of [Nagoya](e2155.html), from where it can be accessed by JR or Kintetsu Railway. Alternatively, it can be accessed by Kintetsu Railway from [Osaka](e2157.html). Those coming from [Tokyo](e2164.html) should travel via Nagoya ([how to travel between Tokyo and Nagoya](e3302.html)).

### How to get from Nagoya to the Suzuka Circuit

#### By JR and Ise Tetsudo

The closest railway station to the race circuit is Suzuka Circuit Ino Station, a 20 minute walk from the circuit. Outside of the grand prix weekend, the one way journey from [Nagoya](e2155.html) to Suzuka Circuit Ino Station takes 60-90 minutes, costs 1070 [yen](e2196.html) and requires one transfer of trains at Suzuka Station (if you ride a Toba-bound rapid train from Nagoya) or Yokkaichi Station (if you ride a Kameyama or Yokkaichi-bound local train from Nagoya).

Over the grand prix weekend, JR "Mie" [rapid trains](e2016.html#category) (Nagoya - [Ise](e4301.html) - Toba, all unreserved, 1070 yen one way) and some Nanki [limited express](e2016.html#category) trains (Nagoya - [Kumano](e4950.html), seat reservations are optional, around 2500 yen one way) exceptionally make a stop at Suzuka Circuit Ino Station. In addition, special direct [limited express](e2016.html#category) trains named "Suzuka Grand Prix" operate between Nagoya and Suzuka Circuit Ino Station (about 2500 yen one way, all seats are reserved). The train ride takes around one hour.

Note that the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) covers only part of the journey, since the section between Kawarada and Suzuka Circuit Ino Station is owned by a non-JR railway company (Ise Tetsudo). The supplement fee to be paid by pass holders is 300 yen one way (610 yen in case of a limited express train).

#### By Kintetsu Railway

An alternative approach to the circuit is provided by Kintetsu Railway. The closest station, Shiroko Station, is a 20 minute bus ride from the circuit (500 yen one way).

The one way journey from Nagoya Station to Shiroko Station takes 40 minutes and costs 1920 yen by limited express train ([tokkyu](e2016.html#category)) or 50 minutes and 1000 yen by express train ([kyuko](e2016.html#category)). Kintetsu trains are not covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html).

### How to get from Osaka to the Suzuka Circuit

#### By Kintetsu Railway

There are two [limited express](e2016.html#category) train connections per hour from Osaka-Namba Station to Shiroko Station (100 minutes, 3510-3710 yen one way). One is direct, while the other requires a transfer at Tsu Station along the way. Seat reservations are mandatory. From Shiroko Station, it is a 20 minute bus ride to the circuit (500 yen one way).

The train journey from Osaka-Namba to Shiroko Station can also be done by slower [express](e2016.html#category) trains, in which case the one way fare is only 2170 yen, but the trip takes about 2.5 hours and usually requires two transfers along the way.