---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4590.html
title: Amakusa Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for the Amakusa Islands in Kumamoto Prefecture.
keywords: amakusa, islands, travel, tourist, torusim, guide, sightseeing, visitor, information
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 1294
char_count: 8774
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:47:47
---

Amakusa (天草) is an island group about 60 kilometers southwest of [Kumamoto City](e4500.html) in western [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html). Made up of two big islands and hundreds of smaller islands, Amakusa is remote and rural with nice natural scenery. This isolation allowed missionaries to convert a considerable percentage of inhabitants and even the local lord (daimyo) to [Christianity](e2298.html) before the religion was forbidden in the early [Edo Period](e2128.html). Today there are numerous museums and churches spread across the islands which reflect this religious heritage.

The three main islands of Amakusa (Shimoshima, Ueshima and Oyano) are connected to one another and to the mainland of Kumamoto by bridges, while ferries provide connections to the smaller islands. Amakusa is abundant with lush greenery and natural geological formations that earned the islands a designation as national Geopark. In addition, wild dolphins live amongst the islands and can be seen on boat tours.

Oe Catholic Church surrounded by greenery

During the early [Edo Period](e2128.html), the Amakusa Islands suffered a period of famine and harsh treatment of its lower classes. Fed up with heavy taxation of the poor and the persecution of [Christians](e2298.html), peasants from the Amakusa Islands and nearby [Shimabara Peninsula](e4450.html) rose up against their lord in 1637-1638. The so called **Shimabara Rebellion**, named so because it was mainly fought on the neighboring peninsula, was one of the largest peasant uprisings during the [Edo Period](e2128.html).

The rebellion was eventually put down by an overwhelming Shogunate force and ended in the death of the entire rebel army, including its young leader, Amakusa Shiro. Afterwards, the Tokugawa Shogunate further enforced its ban of [Christianity](e2298.html). All missionaries were expelled from Japan, and a nationwide crackdown on practicing Christians was carried out, especially in the Amakusa and [Shimabara](e4450.html) regions where the religion was widely established.

Religious items used by the hidden Christians on display

Those who continued to practice in the area, the "Hidden Christians", found ingenious ways to continue exercising their faith by disguising it as [Buddhism](e2055.html). Images of the Virgin Mary were made to resemble the Buddhist Kannon, while crucifixes, crosses and the Virgin Mary were carved into the back of Buddhist statues or hidden in concealed objects. Christians altered their prayers to resemble Buddhist chants and would congregate in the dead of the night so as not to be discovered.

Yearly checks on the locals were carried out to root out Christians. One of the methods of ascertaining if one was Christian was to have them step on an image of Christ. Christians who refused to step on the image were subjected to torture until they denounced their faith or were sentenced to death.

Christian religious items were hidden in statues of Kannon and Buddha

Below is a list of some churches and museums where religious items and statues, edicts and stories from this period of [Christianity in Japan](e2298.html) can be seen.

### Shimoshima Island

* 

  Sakitsu Catholic Church

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free

  The Sakitsu Catholic Church was established in 1569 and served as the center of Christianity in Amakusa during the mid 16th century. The current building was constructed in 1934 in Gothic style and makes for an unusual sight in the small, calm fishing village. Visitors are asked to give prior notice before visiting through [this website](http://kyoukaigun.jp/en/visit/sakitsu.php).
* 

  Oe Catholic Church

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free

  The Oe Catholic Church is a Romanesque style building constructed in 1933 on top of a small hill by a French missionary and his followers. At the bottom of the hill is the Amakusa Rosario Museum which exhibits items related to the hidden Christians during the [Edo Period](e2128.html) when [Christianity](e2298.html) was banned.
* 

  Amakusa Christian Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Tuesday (or following day if Tue is a [holiday](e2062.html)), Dec 30 to Jan 1  
  Admission: 300 yen

  The Amakusa Christian Museum in central Amakusa City showcases the history of [Christians](e2298.html) in Amakusa with an emphasis on the Shimabara Rebellion and the lives of the "Hidden Christians". On display is a large wall painting depicting the final battle of the rebellion at [Hara Castle](e4456.html) and items used by the hidden Christians. Information in English is rather limited.
* 

  Amakusa Collegio Museum

  Hours: 8:30 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Thursday (or following day if Thu is a [holiday](e2062.html)), Dec 30 to Jan 1  
  Admission: 300 yen

  The Amakusa Collegio Museum exhibits items related to Collegio (1591-1597), a Christian college which was the world's largest publisher at that time with a large variety of books printed with a printing press imported from Europe. A life-sized model of Japan's first Gutenberg printing press is on display. An English printout with explanations about the college is available.

### Oyano Island

* 

  Amakusa Shiro Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:20)  
  Closed: 2nd Wednesday in January and June, December 29 to January 1  
  Admission: 600 yen

  This museum covers the Shimabara Rebellion with a focus on its young leader, Amakusa Shiro. Visitors follow a chronological route that ends with a diorama of the final battle at [Hara Castle](e4456.html). A detailed English pamphlet and audio guide are available. There are also exhibits about the hidden Christians and a meditation room for those who wish to relax and meditate.

### How to get to Amakusa

#### By air

Amakusa Airlines serves Amakusa Airport on Shimoshima Island with daily flights from [Osaka](e2157.html) (1.5 hours, 20,000-30,000 yen one way), [Fukuoka](e2161.html) (35 minutes, around 14,000 yen one way) and [Kumamoto](e4500.html) (20 minutes, around 8500 yen one way). A shuttle bus from the airport into central Amakusa City takes about 15 minutes and costs 380 yen one way.

#### By land from Kumamoto

Kyushu Sanko Bus operates one bus every 1-2 hours between Kumamoto (Kumamoto Kotsu Center and JR Kumamoto Station) and Amakusa City (Hondo Bus Center, 本渡バスセンター) on Shimoshima Island (about 145 minutes, 2500 yen one way). Along the way, it serves multiple stops on Ueshima and Oyano Island. [How to get to Kumamoto](e4503.html).

#### By ferry from the Shimabara Peninsula

Hourly ferries connects Kuchinotsu Port on the southern tip of the Shimabara Peninsula with Oniike Port at the northern end of Shimoshima Island in Amakusa. The one way ride takes about 30 minutes and costs 500 yen. The one way fee for a regular sized car is around 3000 yen. [How to get to the Shimabara Peninsula](e4451.html)

#### By ferry from Kagoshima

One ferry every 1-2 hours connects Kuranomoto Port on Nakashima Island in Kagoshima Prefecture with Ushibuka Port near the southern tip of Amakusa. The one way ride takes about 30 minutes and costs 540 yen. The one way fee for a regular sized car is around 3000 yen. Kuranomoto Port can be reached by bus from Izumi Station on the [Kyushu Shinkansen](e2018_kyushu.html) (65 minutes, 1050 yen one way).

### How to get around Amakusa

The three main islands of Amakusa, Shimoshima, Ueshima and Oyano, are connected to one another and to the mainland of Kumamoto by bridges, while ferries provide connections to the smaller islands and to the neighboring [Shimabara Peninsula](e4450.html) in [Nagasaki Prefecture](/list/e1240.html) and Nagashima Island in [Kagoshima Prefecture](/list/e1246.html).

A [bus](e2015.html) network is available on the major islands of Amakusa. Bus service is relatively frequent (approx. hourly) along the major road that connects the Kumamoto mainland with Amakusa City and Ushibuka Port in southern Amakusa, but tends to be infrequent or inexistent elsewhere. Consequently, a [rental car](e2024.html) is the recommended means of exploring the islands. Rental car outlets are available in central Amakusa City or near major railway stations on the Kumamoto mainland.