---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4805.html
title: Ohori Park
description: Visitor guide for Ohori Park, a public park in Fukuoka.
keywords: ohori, koen, park, fukuoka
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 2244
char_count: 15235
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:22:30
---

The large pond at the center of Ohori Park and the walking path that runs alongside it

Ohori Park (大濠公園, Ōhori-kōen) is a pleasant park in central [Fukuoka](e2161.html) with a large pond at its center. There is a walking path around the circumference of the pond that is just a little over two kilometers long and is popular for jogging, walking pets and leisurely strolls by the water.

Ohori is [Japanese](e621.html) for moat, and the park's pond once served as part of the moat system of the neighboring [Fukuoka Castle](e4806.html). The park was constructed between 1926 and 1929 and designed after the classical [garden](e2099.html) style of the West Lake in China. There are three islands in the middle of the pond that are connected to the mainland and each other by elegant stone bridges.

A hexagonal, vermilion pavilion jutting out from one of the islands of Ohori Park

Directly adjacent to the pond at its southeastern corner is the [Fukuoka Art Museum](e4809.html). Opened in 1979, it has a permanent collection that includes [Buddhist](e2055.html) statues dating back to the 11th century and paintings and sculptures by modern artists like Miro and Dali. Besides the permanent collection, the museum also holds a variety of special temporary exhibitions.

A few steps south of the museum visitors will come across the **Ohori Park Japanese Garden** which - in contrast to the rest of the park - requires a small entrance fee. Here visitors can see typical features of [Japanese gardens](e2099.html) like dry landscapes and tea houses. The **Gokoku Shrine** is located across the street about 150 meters to the southeast. The path to the [shrine](e2059.html) leads under a massive [torii gate](e2059.html) and the main shrine building is a unique gold structure situated in front of a spacious yard.

Ohori Park's Japanese Garden

Ohori Park is a few steps from Ohori Koen Station (10 minutes, 260 yen from Hakata Station).

[How to get to and around Fukuoka](e4802.html)