---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4958.html
title: Shirahama Travel Guide
description: Travel information for Shirahama Town in Wakayama Prefecture.
keywords: shirahama, onsen, hot, springs, travel, guide, sightseeing, tourist, tourism, visit, visitor
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 777
char_count: 5628
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:49:35
---

Shirahama (白浜) is a well developed [onsen](e2292.html) (hot spring) resort 100 kilometers south of [Osaka](e2157.html). Its popularity as an entertainment destination and its proximity to Osaka caused Shirahama to become one of Japan's three biggest onsen resorts, along with [Beppu](e4700.html) on [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html) and [Atami](e6317.html) on the [Izu Peninsula](e6310.html).

The name Shirahama is [Japanese](e621.html) for "white beach", and refers to the resort's other major attraction, a 500 meter long sand [beach](e2461.html). Many large hotels are situated around the beach so that visitors will be just a few steps from the water. [Fireworks](e2267.html) are held on selected evenings during summer.

The appearance of [beach](e2461.html) culture and amusement parks may be a relatively recent phenomenon, but Shirahama's status as a travel destination is not. First mention of the town's [hot springs](e2292.html) was recorded over a thousand years ago. Shirahama is even ranked with [Kobe](e2159.html)'s [Arima Onsen](e3558.html) and [Matsuyama](e5500.html)'s [Dogo Onsen](e5502.html) as one of Japan's three oldest onsen.

Six bath houses with hot spring baths are open to the public, most of which have only indoor facilities. However, two outdoor baths, the coastal Sakinoyu and the Shirasuna on the sand beach, are of particular interest to visitors.

### Hot spring baths

* 

  Shirasuna

  Hours: 10:00 to 15:00 (12:00 to 17:30 in July and August)  
  Closed: October to April, and weekdays in May, June and September  
  Admission: Free

  This beach-side onsen has a large bath that can accommodate about 100 people. Because the bath is in plain view to pedestrians, bathing suits must be worn, contrary to regular onsen etiquette.
* 

  Sakinoyu

  Hours: 8:00 to 18:00 (until 17:00 Oct to Mar, 7:00 to 19:00 Jul and Aug)  
  Closed: Irregular closures for maintenance  
  Admission: 500 yen

  Sakinoyu is an outdoor bath that is located right along the seashore, and it affords a view out across the water. It dates back over a thousand years and is mentioned in some of Japan's most ancient texts.

### Rock formations

* 

  Sandanbeki

  Hours: 8:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:50)  
  Admission to caves: 1500 yen

  Sandanbeki consists of three steep cliffs with a large network of caves at water level. An elevator is taken down to the caves, which has a shrine inside and a network of tunnels.
* 

  Senjojiki

  Senjojiki is Japanese for "One Thousand Tatami Mats", which describes the appearance of these flat, sheet-like rocks. The Senjojiki are located along the coast, and visitors can walk out onto them.
* 

  Engetsu Island

  This uniquely shaped rock formation is situated off the western coast of the city. In the evenings of some days of the year, the setting sun can be seen through the hole in the middle of the rock.

### Museums

* 

  Minakata Kumagusu Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Thursdays (except Jul 20 to Aug 31), Jun 28-30, Dec 29-Jan 1  
  Admission: 600 yen

  This museum hosts information and displays on Minakata Kumagusu, a renowned writer and scientist from Wakayama Prefecture. He was a naturalist and folklorist who devoted his life to the pursuit of knowledge.
* 

  Onsen Shiryokan

  Hours: 8:30 to 17:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free

  This museum focuses on [hot springs](e2292.html), with many videos and sculptures put on display to explain the science and history of onsen. Most of it is difficult to understand without Japanese language skills.

### Amusement parks

* 

  Energy Land

  Hours: vary, typically 10:00 to 16:30  
  Closed: some Tuesdays and Thursdays  
  Admission: 2000 yen

  An amusement park that offers interactive op art and a few computer generated movie rides. Somewhat out of date but enjoyable nonetheless, particularly for kids.

Shirahama is a major station on the JR Kisei Line, connected to [Osaka](e2157.html) by hourly [limited express](e2016.html) trains. The town is also the site of Nanki-Shirahama Airport with direct [flights](e2365.html) to Tokyo's [Haneda Airport](e2430.html).

Shirahama Station is located a ten minute, 340 yen [bus](e2015.html) ride outside the town center. Several buses per hour connect the station with Shirahama Bus Center next to the beach in central Shirahama. There are also buses from Shirahama Station to Adventure World (10 minutes, 300 yen) and to Sandanbeki (20 minutes, 480 yen).

From Nanki-Shirahama Airport, you can reach central [Shirahama](e4958.html) and JR Shirahama Station in about 15 minutes by [bus](e2015.html).

[How to get to and around Kumano](e4951.html)