---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4151.html
title: Osaka to Yoshino\: How to get to and around Yoshino
description: How to get to and around Yoshino and Yoshinoyama.
keywords: yoshino, yoshinoyama, orientation, transportation, access, directions, get there, bus, train, ropeway
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 766
char_count: 5303
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:10:24
---

From/To:

OsakaKyotoTokyoNara

The one way ride between Osaka Abenobashi Station (next to Tennoji Station) and [Yoshino](e4150.html) by direct [express](e2016.html) train takes about 90 minutes and cost 1170 yen. By direct [limited express](e2016.html) train it takes 75 minutes and costs 1690 yen. Limited express trains require seat reservations and often book out during the [cherry blossom season](e4152.html).

Note that the [Kansai Railway Pass](e2357_005.html) is not valid all the way to Yoshino, and that pass holders would need to pay a 520 yen supplement one way.

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)(except 460 yen for the Kintetsu section)

The one way journey from [Osaka](e2157.html)'s Tennoji Station to Yoshino-guchi Station takes about one hour, costs 860 yen and requires a transfer of trains at Oji Station. At Yoshino-guchi Station, transfer to the Kintetsu Yoshino Line to Yoshino (30 minutes, 460 yen, not covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html)).

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

[Yoshinoyama](e4150.html) is divided into four areas: the **Shimo Senbon** (lower 1000 trees) at the base of the mountain, **Naka Senbon** (middle 1000 trees), **Kami Senbon** (upper 1000 trees) and **Oku Senbon** (inner 1000 trees) at the top of the mountain.

Most visitors arrive via Yoshino Station in the **Shimo Senbon** (lower) area of the mountain. The road up Yoshinoyama starts off relatively steeply, but flattens out as you enter the town.

The **Yoshino Ropeway** provides an alternative to walking up the first steep slope and drops you off at the entrance to the town. It costs 500 yen one way or 900 yen for a round trip. There are four departures per hour. Outside of the cherry blossom and autumn color seasons, the ropeway operates only from Friday to Monday and on [national holidays](e2062.html), while a substitute bus operates from Tuesday to Thursday.

The town stretches into the **Naka Senbon** (middle) area which remains relatively flat and is home to most of Yoshino's famous [temples](e2058.html) and [shrines](e2059.html), as well as many [ryokan](e2029.html), [restaurants](e2036.html) and souvenir shops. There are also several small parks that provide pleasant settings for [hanami](e2011_how.html) activities.

In the **Kami Senbon** (upper) area, the town gradually ends and the mountain gets steeper again. The area offers many attractive picnic spots under the trees and nice views over the lower slopes of the mountain. It takes about one hour to walk from the upper ropeway station to [Mikumari Shrine](e4156.html) at the far end of the Kami Senbon area.

The **Oku Senbon** (inner) area is covered by forest, which mainly consists of trees other than [cherry trees](e2011.html). Despite being located towards the top of the mountain, the Oku Senbon area offer almost no views of the cherry tree covered mountain slopes. It takes 90 minutes or more to walk from the upper ropeway station to Kinbu Shrine in the Oku Senbon area.

Yoshino Ropeway

Many visitors explore Yoshinoyama entirely on foot. However, besides the above mentioned ropeway, there are also buses which can be used to help cut down on the walking distance or to save time:

#### Buses during the cherry blossom season:

During the [cherry blossom](e4152.html) season, shuttle buses operate between Yoshino Station and the Naka Senbon area near [Chikurin-in Temple](e4155.html) from late March to late April (March 22 to April 20 and April 26 to May 6, 2025; 500 yen one way, 2 buses/hour). From the Naka Senbon area near Chikurin-in Temple, mini buses operate further to the Oku Senbon area of Yoshinoyama until early May (March 22 to May 6, 2025; 15 minutes, 400 yen one way, 1-2 buses/hour).

#### Buses outside the cherry blossom season:

Outside of the cherry blossom season, mini buses operate hourly from the upper ropeway station (Yoshinoyama Station) through the town into the Oku Senbon area on weekends outside of winter. The fare depends on the distance traveled and ranges between 170 and 550 yen. The ride from the upper ropeway station to Oku Senbon takes twenty minutes. The buses do not operate on weekdays and from early December to early March.

A mini bus waiting in front of the upper ropeway station outside of the cherry blossom season