---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4680.html
title: Flower Park Kagoshima
description: Visitor guide for the Flower Park Kagoshima, a spacious park with a variety of tropical and subtropical plants.
keywords: kagoshima, flower, park, tropical, subtropical, satsuma, peninsula, hanto
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 350
char_count: 2545
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:07:48
---

The Flower Park Kagoshima (フラワーパークかごしま) is located near the southern tip of the [Satsuma Peninsula](e4675.html), about a kilometer north of [Cape Nagasakibana](e4681.html). It is a large, attractive park with about half a million plants of more than 2400 different varieties. In addition to typical local [flowers](e2423.html), there are other species from tropical regions all over the world, including Brazil, Australia and South Africa.

The park stretches along the coast for about 500 meters, and going from one end to the other and back entails covering about three kilometers of walking trails. There is a free shuttle bus that travels through the park in a loop with departures every 50 minutes, with the exception of a break around noon. For 500 yen per hour, it is also possible to rent a cart and travel around at one's own pace.

The park showcases a wide variety of [flowers](e2423.html) in both indoor and outdoor settings. There are also some impressive lookout points that give views onto the coastline and allow visitors to enjoy the feel of the ocean wind.

View of the coast

There are infrequent [buses](e2015.html) from [Ibusuki](e4677.html) Station to the Flower Park Kagoshima (フラワーパークかごしま, 40 minutes, 620 yen, every 2 hours until mid afternoon). The buses are bound for Ikedako (池田湖) and also stop at Yamakawa Station, the [Healthy Land](e4677.html#healthy) and [Cape Nagasakibana](e4681.html).

[How to get to and around the Satsuma Peninsula](e4676.html)