---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4950.html
title: Kumano Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Kumano, one of Japan's most sacred regions.
keywords: kumano, travel, sightseeing, guide, tourist, tourism, visitor, visit, unesco, world, heritage, kii, peninsula
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 422
char_count: 3480
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:50:17
---

The Kumano area (熊野) is located around the southern tip of the Kii Peninsula, about 100 kilometers south of [Osaka](e2157.html) and [Kyoto](e2158.html). It spans [Wakayama](/list/e1229.html) and [Mie](/list/e1225.html) prefectures, although most of the attractions and religious sites are in Wakayama.

Kumano is centered around three shrines, [Hongu Taisha](e4953.html), [Nachi Taisha](e4955.html) and [Hayatama Taisha](e4954.html), collectively known as the Kumano Sanzan. Pilgrims have traveled to and between the Kumano Sanzan via a network of walking trails, called [Kumano Kodo](e4952.html), for over 1000 years. The shrines are even older, with mention in Japan's founding mythology.

The region is infused with religious and historical value that emanates from the three shrines. The [Sun Goddess](e2056.html)' great grandson, Jimmu, came to Kumano to unify the country as Japan's first [emperor](e2135.html). To further add to the area's sanctity, Kumano is also called "The Land of the Dead" in reference to the belief that spirits and family ancestors dwell here after they die.

Towns and cities dot the Kii coastline, combining Kumano's ancient history with day to day living. Some offer [hot springs](e2292.html), such as [Shirahama](e4958.html) and [Katsuura](e4956.html), while others feature coastal scenery, such as [Kumano City](e4959.html) and [Kushimoto](e4957.html).

In 2004, Kumano's religious treasures and [pilgrimage routes](e4952.html) were designated a [UNESCO World Heritage Site](e2251.html). Named "The Sacred Sites and Pilgrimage Routes in the Kii Mountain Range", the designation also includes neighboring [Koyasan](e4900.html), [Yoshino](e4150.html) and Ominesan.

* [](/e/e4955.html)

  1

  Shrine

  [Nachi Taisha••](/e/e4955.html)

  One of the three Kumano shrines.

  4.5

  

  211
* [](/e/e4952.html)

  2

  Hiking

  [Kumano Kodo•](/e/e4952.html)

  Ancient network of pilgrimage routes.

  4.4

  

  195
* [](/e/e4953.html)

  3

  Shrine

  [Hongu Taisha•](/e/e4953.html)

  One of the three Kumano shrines.

  4.0

  

  145
* [](/e/e4958.html)

  4

  Beach

  [Shirahama](/e/e4958.html)

  Large hot spring resort with sand beach.

  3.6

  

  136
* [](/e/e4956.html)

  5

  Onsen

  [Katsuura](/e/e4956.html)

  Coastal hot spring resort.

  3.5

  

  146
* [](/e/e4954.html)

  6

  Shrine

  [Hayatama Taisha](/e/e4954.html)

  One of the three Kumano shrines.

  3.4

  

  110
* [](/e/e4957.html)

  7

  Nature

  [Kushimoto](/e/e4957.html)

  Southermost point of Honshu Island.

  3.2

  

  72
* [](/e/e4959.html)

  8

  Neighborhood

  [Kumano City](/e/e4959.html)

  Site of an ancient shrine.

  2.7

  

  85

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Kumano](e4950.html)

[Getting to and around Kumano](e4951.html)
[See access info](e4951.html)