---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4701.html
title: Hot Spring Baths (Onsen)
description: Travel guide for the hot springs (onsen) of Beppu.
keywords: beppu, spa, hot, spring, springs, onsen, bath, baths, guide
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 2211
char_count: 14445
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:48:56
---

[Beppu](e4700.html) is one of the most famous [hot spring](e2292.html) resorts in Japan. The city is blessed by as many as eight different springs, named Beppu Onsen, Kannawa Onsen, Myoban Onsen, Kankaiji Onsen, Hamawaki Onsen, Kamegawa Onsen, Horita Onsen and Shibaseki Onsen, each featuring [public baths](e2074.html) and [ryokan](e2029.html) with bathing facilities. Together they produce more hot spring water than any other onsen resort in the country.

What sets Beppu apart from other onsen resorts is not only its abundance of thermal waters, but also the wide range of bath types that can be enjoyed there. Aside from conventional hot water baths, Beppu offers sand baths where bathers are buried in naturally heated sand, steam baths that are heated by the steam of a hot spring, and mud baths which are basically muddy hot water baths.

Below in a list of some of Beppu's best baths. More baths can be found in nearby [Yufuin](e4750.html).

* 

  Tanayu••

  Daytime visitor hours: 9:00 to 23:00 (entry until 22:00)  
  Daytime admission: 1900-2100 yen (weekdays), 2300 yen (weekends and [national holidays](e2062.html))  
  Check hotel rates at [booking.com](http://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/suginoi-hotel.en-us.html?aid=371183) and [agoda.com](http://www.agoda.com/suginoi-hotel/hotel/oita-beppu-jp.html?site_id=25544)

  Tanayu is the main hot spring facility of the Suginoi Hotel, a leading [ryokan](e2029.html) in town. The massive complex offers elegant outdoor pools on the building's roof with spectacular, unobstructed views over the city. Visitors can also use the mixed-gender Aqua Garden hot spring facility next door which is enjoyed in bathing suits.
* 

  Onsen Hoyo Land•

  Hours: 9:00 to 20:00  
  Admission: 1500 yen  
  Overnight stay: 6500 yen without meals

  This slightly run-down, yet atmospheric [public bath](e2074.html) complex is an onsen enthusiasts' favorite and offers rare mud baths and steam baths in addition to conventional hot water baths. While the indoor baths are gender separated, the outdoor zone is partly mixed.
* 

  Takegawara•

  Hours: 6:30 to 22:30 (sand bath from 8:00, entry until 21:30)  
  Closed: Third Wednesday each month  
  Admission: 1500 yen (sand bath), 300 yen (regular bath only)

  First constructed in 1879, Takegawara Spa is [Beppu](e4700.html)'s most famous bath house, offering sand and regular baths in an atmosphere of the past. The building is partially surrounded by a red light district.
* 

  Hyotan Onsen•

  Hours: 9:00 to 1:00am  
  Closed: Some irregular closing days  
  Admission: 1020 yen

  This [public bath house](e2074.html) offers regular indoor and outdoor baths, an entire row of "waterfalls" for massaging one's shoulders, steam baths and sand baths. Private baths and meals are also available.
* 

  Ebisuya Onsen•

  Hours: 10:00 to 22:00 (entry until 21:00)  
  Closed: Some irregular closures for maintenance  
  Admission: 1300 yen

  Ebisuya is a [public bath house](e2074.html) in the rural Myoban district of Beppu. It offers multiple bath tubs of different sizes and styles, including jacuzzi and aroma baths, as well as steam boxes.
* 

  Myoban Yunosato

  Hours: 10:00 to 18:00 (until 19:00 on weekends and [national holidays](e2062.html))  
  Admission: 600 yen

  Located in the Myoban district on the slopes above the city, Yunosato offers indoor and outdoor baths with nice sulfuric waters. Despite a promising location, the outdoor baths have views mainly onto a fence. The complex also features shops and huts for the production of yunohana (sulfuric powder).
* 

  Beppu Beach Sand Spa

  Hours: 8:00 to 22:00 (entry until 21:00)  
  Admission: 2500 yen

  The Beppu Beach Sand Spa at the coast of Beppu Bay is another famous place to enjoy sand baths in Beppu.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding