---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4775.html
title: Kuju Mountains Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for the Kuju Mountains, a mountain range in central Kyushu.
keywords: kuju, mountains, mount, kujusan, range, national, park, kyushu, travel, guide, sightseeing, tourism, tourist, visitor, information
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 720
char_count: 5018
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:48:49
---

The Kuju mountain range (九重山, Kujūsan) is part of the [Aso-Kuju National Park](e4570.html) and includes the highest peak on the island of [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html). The mountains are covered by a network of [hiking](e2427.html) trails that offer spectacular views of the volcanic terrain. Between late October and mid November, Kuju becomes one of the best places on Kyushu to find [fall colors](e2014.html).

The Kuju mountains are located along the [Yamanami Highway](e4571.html) that extends from [Beppu](e4700.html) to [Aso](e4550.html) as part of the attractive [Trans Kyushu Route](e4571.html). The two main hiking trailheads are located at the **Makinoto Pass** and the **Chojabaru Visitor Center**, which are both along the popular road.

Of the park's two main trailheads, the Makinoto Pass is located at a higher elevation and is closer to the main mountain peaks, while the Chojabaru Visitor Center has informative displays about the area and more facilities. Depending on the trailhead and route taken, a round trip to Kuju's main peaks typically takes between four and six hours.

The park's highest point is the **Nakadake** (中岳) peak at 1791 meters. The nearby **Kuju** (久住山) peak stands slightly shorter at 1786 meters and is popular for its fantastic views. Another popular peak to visit is **Hossho** (星生山), which has steam emitting vents along its slopes. The peaks of the Kuju mountains are usually covered in snow from December through March.

The Makinoto Pass

Travelers who are looking for a less time consuming and physically demanding hike can explore a network of walkways around the Chojabaru Visitor Center. There is a wetland beside the visitor center above which wooden walkways are elevated. A looping 2.5 kilometer course takes 30-40 minutes to walk, and the Kuju mountains can be seen from along the path.

Due to the area's volcanic activity, there are quite a few [onsen](e2292.html) (natural hot springs) in the Kuju area. Around the base of the mountains there are a few [ryokan](e2029.html) and hotels with hot spring baths that can be used by overnight guests and in some cases day trippers. The particularly attractive hot spring town of [Kurokawa Onsen](e4575.html) is also located nearby.

Elevated walkways above the wetlands beside the Chojabaru Visitor Center

### By car

The Kuju Mountains stand along the popular [Trans Kyushu Route](e4571.html), and the trailheads of both the Makinoto Pass and the Chojabaru Visitor Center are located along the attractive [Yamanami Highway](e4571.html). The mountains are a two hour drive from [Kumamoto](e4500.html) and a 75 minute drive from [Beppu](e4700.html). [Rental car](e2024.html) outlets can be easily found in both cities.

### By bus along the Trans Kyushu Route

For travelers using public transportation along the [Trans Kyushu Route](e4571.html), the Kyushu Odan Bus by Kyusanko provides connections to the Kuju Mountains from [Kumamoto](e4500.html) in the west (3 hours, 4000-4500 yen) and [Beppu](e4700.html) in the east (2 hours, 3000-3500 yen). The buses stop at both the Makinoto Pass and the Kuju-tozanguchi bus stop beside the Chojabaru Visitor Center.

The Kamenoi bus company also operates two buses between [Yufuin](e4750.html) and the Makinoto Pass on weekends and [public holidays](e2062.html) from April to November. The one way trip takes about 80 minutes and costs 1350 yen.

### By bus from the north

For travelers coming from [Fukuoka](e2161.html), the fastest way to reach the Kuju Mountains directly can be taking a [limited express train](e2016.html) to Bungo Nakamura Station on the JR Kyudai Line (2 hours, 4500-5500 yen) from where there are infrequent community bus connections to the Kujū-tozanguchi (九重登山口) bus stop beside the Chojabaru Visitor Center (40 minutes, 500 yen one way, 3-6 connections/day, some require a transfer of buses at Handa Kōryū Center (飯田交流センター) along the way) and outside winter to the Makinoto Pass.