---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4280.html
title: Awazu Onsen
description: Visitor guide for Awazu Onsen, a hot spring town in Ishikawa Prefecture.
keywords: awazu, onsen, hot, spring, spa, kaga
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 556
char_count: 4161
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:18:02
---

Awazu Onsen (粟津温泉) is one of the four [hot spring](e2292.html) towns that make up [Kaga Onsen](e4275.html). Its waters were discovered over 1300 years ago by the same monk who founded nearby [Natadera Temple](e4281.html). The town is home to Hoshi Ryokan, which, founded in 718, is one of the world's oldest hotels and longest continuously operating companies.

Awazu Onsen's clear spring waters are said to help with circulation, ease chronic disease and rejuvenate the skin. It can be enjoyed at the town's [ryokan](e2029.html) and at the **Soyu**, the [public bath house](e2074.html) which is frequented by both residents and visitors alike. The Soyu is a recently rebuilt, modern facility that has one large indoor pool in each of its gender segregated bathing areas.

Soyu

Two kilometers outside central Awazu lies the **Yunokuninomori** craft village, where tourists can purchase or try their hand at making various traditional handicrafts from the region. The village consists of over a dozen traditional style buildings that are each dedicated to a specific craft, such as [pottery](e2329.html), lacquerware, gold leaf gilding and glass making.

A few kilometers down the road from Yunokuninomori stands [Natadera Temple](e4281.html) an important [temple](e2058.html) which belongs to the Shingon sect of [Japanese Buddhism](e2055.html). Natadera is known for its caves carved into a rocky cliffside that were used for meditation.

Hoshi Ryokan, one of the oldest hotels in the world

### From Kaga Onsen Station

Awazu Onsen, the Yunokuninomori craft village and [Natadera](e4281.html) are connected by the [Can Bus](e4276.html#canbus) (Yamamawari course) from Kaga Onsen Station in about an hour. There are buses about every two hours, but note that central Awazu Onsen is served only by some of them.

### From Komatsu Station

There are hourly [buses](e2015.html) between Komatsu Station and Awazu Onsen. The one way ride takes 30 minutes and costs 460 yen. Some buses continue on to [Natadera Temple](e4281.html).

### From Awazu Station

Awazu is a station along the IR Ishikawa Railway between [Kanazawa](e2167.html) and Kaga Onsen stations, however, the station is not located centrally. From the station it is a ten minute [bus](e2015.html) or [taxi](e2021.html) ride into the town center. To make things worse, train arrivals and bus departures are not always well timed with each other.

[How to get to and around Kaga Onsen](e4276.html)