---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4809.html
title: Fukuoka Museum Guide
description: Introducing some of the better museums found around Fukuoka.
keywords: fukuoka, hakata, museum, guide, art, history, asian
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 2233
char_count: 15291
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:22:49
---

Several nice art and history museums are scattered around central [Fukuoka](e2161.html). The following is a list of some of the more popular ones:

* 

  Fukuoka City Museum

  In the [Seaside Momochi](e4801.html) area about a 15 minute walk from Nishijin Station  
  Hours: 9:30 to 17:30 (entry until 17:00)  
  Closed: Mondays (or next day if Monday is a [holiday](e2062.html)), Dec 28 to Jan 4  
  Admission: 200 yen (permanent exhibition)

  This history museum displays the cultural development of the local region with an emphasis on Fukuoka's role as a gateway for trade and culture exchange between Japan and the Korean Peninsula. The permanent exhibit is very well done with interactive exhibits and lots of English information.
* 

  Fukuoka Asian Art Museum

  Adjacent to Nakasukawabata Station  
  Gallery Hours: 9:30 to 18:00 (until 20:00 on Fridays and Saturdays; admission ends 30 minutes before closing)  
  Closed: Wednesdays (or next day if Wednesday is a [holiday](e2062.html)), Dec 26 to Jan 1  
  Admission: 200 yen (permanent exhibition)

  The Fukuoka Asian Art Museum exhibits a sizable collection of works by artists from Asia. The art on display are dated from the early 20th century till present, and consists mostly of oil paintings, some sculptures and a few contemporary creations. Good English information is available. A separate gallery at the museum periodically hosts temporary exhibitions of various genres.
* 

  Fukuoka Art Museum

  Southeast end of [Ohori Park](e4805.html)  
  Hours: 9:30 to 17:30 (until 20:00 on Fri and Sat from Jul to Oct)  
  Closed: Mondays (or next day if Monday is a [holiday](e2062.html)), Dec 28 to Jan 4  
  Admission: 200 yen (permanent exhibition)

  Surrounded by the greenery of [Ohori Park](e4805.html), the Fukuoka Art Museum has a unique permanent collection comprised of a gallery of ancient [Buddhist](e2055.html) statues paired with a gallery of paintings and sculptures by modern artists like Miro and Dali. Besides the permanent collection, the museum also holds a variety of special temporary exhibitions.