---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4279.html
title: Katayamazu Onsen
description: Visitor guide for Katayamazu Onsen, a hot spring town in Ishikawa Prefecture.
keywords: katayamazu, onsen, hot, spring, spa, kaga
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 706
char_count: 5181
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:17:58
---

Katayamazu Onsen (片山津温泉) is a built up [hot spring](e2292.html) town along the shores of the Shibayamagata Lagoon, and one of the four resort towns that make up [Kaga Onsen](e4275.html). Many of the town's large [ryokan](e2029.html) and hotels feature baths with attractive views onto the lagoon and Mount Hakusan in the distance.

The Shibayamagata Lagoon is said to naturally change colors seven times per day. A fountain at its center shoots water up to 70 meters high for a few minutes every hour. A small shrine dedicated to Benten, the goddess of good fortune, wealth, music and knowledge, stands on a pier out over the water. The shrine is illuminated in the evenings together with the fountain.

Another site of interest unrelated to bathing is the [Museum of Snow and Ice](e4283.html#snow). This museum displays the photographs and equipment of local scientist Nakaya Ukichiro who devoted his life to the study of snow crystals in [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html) and around the world. The museum also provides visitors with interesting hands-on activities involving supercooled water and ice.

The following is a list of some of Katayamazu's baths that are open to day trip visitors:

* 

  Soyu (Public Bath)

  Hours: 6:00 to 22:00  
  Closed: Infrequent, irregular closures (cafe closed on Thursdays)  
  Admission: 500 yen

  Katayamazu Onsen's [public bath](e2074.html) moved into this modern, lakeside building built by renowned architect [Taniguchi Yoshio](e2111_architects.html) in 2012. Its two baths, one looking onto the lake and one looking onto trees, are switched between the genders on a daily basis.
* 

  Kasuikyo

  Daytime Hours: 14:00 to 22:00  
  Daytime Admission: 1,500 yen  
  Overnight Stay: from 14,000 yen per person including 2 meals

  The northernmost of the large hotels in Katayamazu Onsen, Kasuikyo is housed in a massive concrete building with a unique interior design. Its beautiful baths are gender segregated and feature a large indoor pool and smaller wooden outdoor baths with excellent views over the lagoon and Mount Hakusan in the distance.
* 

  New Maruya Hotel

  Daytime Hours: 7:00 to 10:00 and 15:00 to 24:00   
  Daytime Admission: 900 yen (weekday), 1,200 yen (weekends)  
  Overnight Stay: from 11,000 yen per person including 2 meals

  The New Maruya Hotel in central Katayamazu Onsen features a large indoor tub for each gender with views over the lagoon. It also has attractive baths that have massaging waterfalls, but are mostly shielded from view of the lagoon.
* 

  Oedo Onsen Monogatari Nagayama

  Daytime Hours: 7:00 to 10:00 and 15:00 to 24:00  
  Daytime Admission: 1,020 yen  
  Overnight Stay: from 11,000 yen per person including 2 meals

  Oedo Onsen Monogatari is hot spring ryokan group with a number of branches all across Japan with inexpensive overnight plans. This ryokan's hot spring baths offer excellent views of the lagoon from practically next to the water.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

Katayamazu Onsen is accessible by [Can Bus](e4276.html#canbus) (Umimawari Route) from Kaga Onsen Station. The ride takes about an hour, and buses depart every 1-2 hours. Alternatively, Katayamazu Onsen is about a 15 minute [taxi](e2021.html) ride (about 2000 yen) from Kaga Onsen Station.

[How to get to and around Kaga Onsen](e4276.html)