---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4625.html
title: Kirishima Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Kirishima, a national park shared between Kagoshima and Miyazaki Prefectures.
keywords: kirishima, national, park, travel, guide, sightseeing, trip, visior, tourism, tourist, information
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 351
char_count: 2810
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:47:45
---

Kirishima (霧島) is an active volcanic mountain range that lies on the border between [Miyazaki](/list/e1245.html) and [Kagoshima Prefectures](/list/e1246.html). It is made up of mountains, highlands, volcanic lakes and [hot springs](e2292.html) and offers good [hiking](e4629.html) through beautiful mountainous surroundings. Due to a recent eruption by Mount Shinmoedake some of the hiking trails are currently closed.

The mountains of Kirishima play an important role in Japanese mythology. They are said to be the site where the god Ninigi no Mikoto, grandson of the sun goddess [Amaterasu](e2056.html), was sent to rule over the earth and establish the lineage of Japanese Emperors. At the top of [Mount Takachiho-no-mine](e4629.html) you can see the spear sunk in the mountaintop, which Ninigi no Mikoto used to descend to earth.

Ebino Kogen and Kirishima Onsen are the two most prominent resort towns in the Kirishima area. [Ebino Kogen](e4627.html) on the Miyazaki side of the border, is a small village with a couple of hotels in a highland area surrounded by mountains and volcanic lakes. On the Kagoshima side is [Kirishima Onsen](e4628.html), a more developed hot spring town with good baths and nice views over Kagoshima Prefecture.

* [](/e/e4629.html)

  1

  Hiking

  [Hiking in Kirishima•••](/e/e4629.html)

  Offering breathtaking volcanic landscapes.

  4.5

  

  77
* [](/e/e4628.html)

  2

  Onsen

  [Kirishima Onsen•](/e/e4628.html)

  Popular hot spring resort.

  4.0

  

  131
* [](/e/e4627.html)

  3

  Nature

  [Ebino Kogen•](/e/e4627.html)

  Mountainous highland with a small town.

  3.8

  

  96
* [](/e/e4630.html)

  4

  Shrine

  [Kirishima Shrine•](/e/e4630.html)

  Devoted to Ninigi no Mikoto.

  3.6

  

  117

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Kirishima](/e/e4625.html)

[Getting to and around Kirishima](/e/e4626.html)
[See access info](/e/e4626.html)