---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4113.html
title: Mount Wakakusayama
description: Visitor guide for Mount Wakakusayama in Nara.
keywords: nara, wakakusa, mountain, mount, wakakusayama, mt
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 1854
char_count: 12526
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:45:28
---

Lower slope of Mount Wakakusayama with Todaiji in the distance

Mount Wakakusayama (若草山) is the grass covered mountain behind [Nara Park](e4103.html), located between [Todaiji Temple](e4100.html) and [Kasuga Shrine](e4102.html). The mountain is about 350 meters tall and affords unobstructed views over [Nara City](e2165.html). Tourists are allowed to climb Mount Wakakusayama all year round except during winter. A small entrance fee is charged.

The grassy slope of the mountain is lined by [cherry trees](e2011.html) that are usually in full bloom around early April. A steep trail leads along the leftmost edge of the slope to a plateau halfway up the mountain with great views over the city. It takes about 15-20 minutes to reach the plateau and many people turn back here. An additional 20-30 minutes get you to the mountain's peak.

Every winter on the fourth Saturday of January, Mount Wakakusayama's slopes are burned during the spectacular [Wakakusa Yamayaki](e4118.html). The origins of the event are unclear. One theory claims that it resulted from a boundary dispute, while another claims the fires were used to drive away wild boars. The burning of the mountain is preceded by a short fireworks display.

The base of Wakakusayama is located about a 10-15 minute walk from both [Todaiji Temple](e4100.html) and [Kasuga Taisha](e4102.html). The mountain can also be reached on foot from Kintetsu Nara Station in about 35 minutes or from JR Nara Station in about 50 minutes. [Buses](e2015.html) run from either station as far as [Kasuga Taisha](e4102.html) (250 yen).

[How to get to and around Nara](e4107.html)