---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4204.html
title: Nagamachi Samurai District
description: Visitor guide for Nagamachi, Kanazawa's samurai district.
keywords: nagamachi, samurai, district, kanazawa
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 2028
char_count: 14266
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:23:51
---

Nagamachi (長町) was a [samurai](e2127.html) district located at the foot of the former [Kanazawa Castle](e4202.html), where samurai and their families used to reside. The area preserves a historic atmosphere with its remaining residences, earthen walls, private entrance gates, narrow lanes and water canals.

One of the main attractions of the district is the centrally located **Nomura-ke**, a restored samurai residence displaying the lifestyle and artifacts of the era when samurai were prosperous. In contrast is the **Shinise Kinenkan Museum**, a restored pharmacy displaying the lives of the merchant class which rose in prosperity as the samurai declined.

The district has a few other museums and restored structures, as well as a number of shops and restaurants. Below is list of some of the attractions around Nagamachi:

* 

  Nomura-ke

  Centrally located in the Nagamachi District  
  Hours: 8:30 to 17:30 (until 16:30 from Oct through Mar)  
  Closed: December 26 and 27, January 1 and 2  
  Admission: 550 yen

  A restored samurai residence with a beautiful, small [garden](e2099.html). The Nomura were a high ranked [samurai](e2127.html) family who, like many other samurai, went broke when the feudal era came to an end with the [Meiji Period](e2130.html).
* 

  Shinise Kinenkan Museum

  5 minute walk south of Nomura-ke  
  Hours: 9:30 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Mondays (or next day if Mon is a [holiday](e2062.html)), Dec 29 to Jan 3  
  Admission: 100 yen

  The Shinise Kinenkan is a restored shop from the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603 - 1868). Once a prominent pharmacy, it now is a museum that also shows local Kanazawa crafts.
* 

  Maeda Tosanokami-ke Shiryokan

  5 minute walk south of Nomura-ke  
  Hours: 9:30 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Mondays (or next day if Mon is a [holiday](e2062.html)), December 29 to January 3  
  Admission: 310 yen

  This museum is dedicated to the Maeda family who once ruled over the region around [Kanazawa](e2167.html). The museum features samurai armor and other relics of the Maeda Clan. English audio guides are freely available.
* 

  Ashigaru Shiryokan Museum

  5 minute walk north of Nomura-ke  
  Hours: 9:30 to 17:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free

  The ashigaru, or footsoldiers, were the lowest ranked soldiers of the [samurai](e2127.html) class. This small museum consists of two reconstructed homes, which illustrate the relatively austere lifestyle of the ashigaru.
* 

  Kaga Hanshi

  2 minutes walk north of Nomura-ke  
  Hours: 9:30 to 17:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free

  This preserved building was previously a stable for horses. Today it contains a nice strolling garden in the middle of the Nagamachi district.
* 

  Nagamachi Yuzenkan

  Temporarily closed until further notice.  
  5 minute walk northwest of Nomura-ke  
  Hours: 9:30 to 17:00  
  Closed: Tuesdays, Wednesdays, December to February  
  Admission: 350 yen

  Nagamachi Yuzenkan stands on the site of a former samurai house and is now a silk painting workshop open to the public. Visitors can observe the artists as they mix colors and paint beautiful designs on silk.

Nagamachi is a five minute walk south of Korinbo bus stop. Frequent [buses](e2015.html) take about ten minutes to reach Korinbo from Kanazawa Station (Kenrokuen Exit). Among the buses are also 1-3 JR buses per hour (covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html)) and the [Kanazawa Loop Bus](e4208.html). The one way fare is 210 yen.

[How to get to and around Kanazawa](e4208.html)