---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4277.html
title: Yamashiro Onsen
description: Visitor guide for Yamashiro Onsen, a hot spring town in Ishikawa Prefecture.
keywords: yamashiro, onsen, hot, spring, spa, kaga
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 544
char_count: 3983
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:17:56
---

Yamashiro Onsen's public baths

Yamashiro Onsen (山代温泉) is one of the four [hot spring](e2292.html) towns that make up [Kaga Onsen](e4275.html). The town's spring waters, which relieve muscle and joint pain as well as skin disease and digestion problems, were discovered by the monk Gyoki during his pilgrimage to nearby Mount Hakusan over 1300 years ago.

The main attraction of Yamashiro Onsen are its [public bath houses](e2074.html) in the center of town. Known as the **Soyu** (public bath) and **Ko-Soyu** (old public bath), both of these attractive bath houses were rebuilt in 2008 and 2010 respectively. While the Soyu is a modern facility with multiple, gender segregated indoor baths popular among the locals, the Ko-Soyu is a unique bath house spectacularly rebuilt in the style of its [Meiji Period](e2130.html) appearance. It includes a rest area on its second floor.

The rest area of the Ko-Soyu

The public bath houses are surrounded by several [ryokan](e2029.html), shops and a few other attractions that make for a pleasant walk around town. The atmospheric Yakuoin Onsenji Temple stands on the hill directly behind the Soyu bath house, and Rosanjin's Hut Iroha, a former residence of Rosanjin, one of Japan's most famous ceramicist, is just a few more steps away.

Yamashiro is also known for its Kutaniyaki [pottery](e2329.html). The [Kutaniyaki Kiln Exhibition Hall](e4283.html#exhibition), just outside of the town center, displays a variety of antique and modern kutaniyaki works as well as the ruins of a large, multi leveled kiln from the [Edo Period](e2128.html). Hands-on workshops are offered as well. Kutaniyaki tiles can also be seen adorning the walls of the town's public baths.

The workshop area of the Kutaniyaki Kiln Exhibition Hall

Yamashiro Onsen is a 15 minute ride from Kaga Onsen Station by [buses](e2015.html) bound for [Yamanaka Onsen](e4278.html). The one way fare is 250 yen, and there are 1-2 connections per hour. Yamashiro Onsen is also served by the [Can Bus](e4276.html#canbus) along the Yamamawari Route (15 minutes from Kaga Onsen Station).

[How to get to and around Kaga Onsen](e4276.html)