---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4355.html
title: Danjiri Museum
description: Visitor guide for the Danjiri Museum in Iga Ueno, which exhibits danjiri festival floats and informs about the Ueno Tenjin Festival.
keywords: danjiri, museum, kaikan, iga, ueno, tenjin, matsuri, festival
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 340
char_count: 2422
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:21:33
---

The Danjiri Museum (だんじり会館, Danjiri Kaikan) introduces the Ueno Tenjin Festival, which is held annually from October 23 to 25. Immediately upon entering the museum, visitors will be faced with a huge round glass encasement displaying three danjiri (festival floats) and life-sized figures, simulating the festival's atmosphere. Large screens periodically show a movie about the cultural and natural characteristics of [Iga Ueno](e4350.html).

In a second exhibition room, more figures, donned in demons' (oni) costumes, form a procession called the Oni-gyoretsu, showing visitors what a typical street scene during the parade of the Ueno Tenjin Festival looks like. Of interest are the various expressions on the demon masks. During the [festival](e2063.html), characters playing the role of demons interact with the audience by acting out various characters as pertained by the masks.

The museum is also one of a few places in the city where, for a small fee, tourists can rent [ninja](e2295.html) costumes and wear them while sightseeing in the town or have their picture taken. Particularly popular among children, the ninja costume service is available from 10:00 to 15:00.

Festival floats on display

The Danjiri Museum is located a five minute walk northeast of Uenoshi Station.

[How to get to and around Iga Ueno](e4353.html)