---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4750.html
title: Yufuin Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Yufuin Onsen, a popular hot spring resort in Oita Prefecture with a large unmber of museums, shops, and cafes.
keywords: yufuin, onsen, hot, spring, travel, guide, sightseeing, tourism, tourist, visitor, information
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 2337
char_count: 15327
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 11:39:20
---

Yufuin (由布院 as onsen resort, 湯布院 as city district) is a popular [hot spring](e2292.html) resort, located about ten kilometers inland from [Beppu](e4700.html), another, much larger and more developed hot spring resort. Yufuin has a wealth of art museums, cafes and boutiques, and many travelers come to the city just to stroll about town for the day.

Yufuin is located on a flat river basin surrounded by mountains. The most prominent feature of Yufuin's skyline is the twin peaked **Mount Yufu**, which hovers over the town and serves as the backdrop for many scenic views. The area is rural, and shortly after leaving the main walking route, travelers will come across the rice paddies and farm houses, which make up a considerable part of the town.

Main shopping street

The [ryokan](e2029.html) and hotels of Yufuin are spread out around town, and not clustered along the main street like in many other [resort towns](e2292_where.html). Instead, the main street is lined with cafes, boutiques and small museums, giving Yufuin an atmosphere more like a trendy shopping area than a traditional onsen town. Nonetheless, there is a large number of lodgings with [hot spring](e2292.html) baths, some of which open their baths to non-staying guests during daytime.

Another natural landmark of Yufuin is **Lake Kinrinko**. The small lake is located at the end of the town's main walking route, about 1.5 kilometers from the station. Walking paths surround the lake as well as more small shops and cafes, and there is a small [shrine](e2059.html) located at the lake's southern end. There are also a few [public bath houses](e2074.html), one of which, the [Shitanyu](e4750.html#shitanyu), can be used by tourists, while the others are for use by local residents only.

Lake Kinrinko

Below is a list of some of Yufuin's best baths:

* 

  Tsuka no Ma•

  Daytime Hours: 9:30 to 18:30 (entry until 18:00), closed Tue and Wed  
  Daytime Admission: 800 yen  
  Overnight Stay: From 12,000 yen per person, no meals

  Tsuka no Ma (formerly known as Shoya no Yakata) is located on a hillside in the northern part of Yufuin where large steam clouds from hot spring sources can be seen rising into the air. The ryokan has large, gender separated outdoor baths with blueish-looking water, untypical for Yufuin. The location on the hillside allows for some views onto the town below.
* 

  Baien•

  Daytime visits by non-staying guests are not possible!  
  Overnight Stay: From 22,000 yen per person including two meals

  Baien is located slightly above the town to the south, and has large, attractive outdoor baths (rotemburo) for visitors. On clear days, the twin peaks of Mount Yufu are visible from the baths. The facilities are gender separated.
* 

  Musoen•

  Daytime Hours: 10:00 to 14:30 (entry until 14:00)  
  Daytime Admission: 1000 yen  
  Overnight Stay: From 30,000 yen per person including two meals

  The views of Mount Yufu from Musoen's outdoor baths are considered among Yufuin's best. The ryokan is located slightly above the town to the south and has large, attractive baths that are gender separated. The ryokan grounds are quite attractive, as well.
* 

  Sansuikan

  Daytime Hours: 12:00 to 16:00  
  Daytime Admission: 1000 yen  
  Overnight Stay: From 21,000 yen per person including two meals

  Located just a short walk from Yufuin Station, Sansuikan offers some of the most easily accessible baths to tourists without private means of transportation. The large [ryokan](e2029.html)'s gender separated bathing facilities feature multiple outdoor and indoor pools, a scented bath and a sauna.
* 

  Shitanyu Public Bath

  Hours: 10:00 to 20:00  
  Admission: 300 yen

  The Shitanyu is a very simple, old-fashioned [public bath house](e2074.html) at the shore of Lake Kinrinko with two small pools. It is gender mixed without dedicated changing rooms and very limited facilities. The bath house opens towards the back, giving bathers a view onto some greenery.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

From/To:

BeppuFukuokaKumamotoAsoTokyo

Kamenoi Bus operates 1-2 [buses](e2015.html) per hour between [Beppu](e4700.html) and [Yufuin](e4750.html) Stations. The one way trip takes 50 minutes and costs 1100 yen.

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

Train travel between [Beppu](e4700.html) and [Yufuin](e4750.html) requires a transfer of trains at Oita Station. By local trains, the one way journey takes about 80 minutes, costs 1300 yen and is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and [Kyushu Rail Pass](e2361_05.html).

The Kyushu Odan Bus operates between [Beppu](e4700.html) and [Kumamoto](e4500.html), stopping at [Yufuin](e4750.html) along the way. The one way journey between Beppu and Yufuin takes one hour, costs 1300 yen and is covered by the [Sun Q Pass](e2357_014.html). Online reservations are possible through [Willer](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/oita/beppu/oita/yufu/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184) or [Japan Bus Online](https://japanbusonline.com/CourseSearch/14301010001?afcd=MDI=&RosenNm=yufuin-beppu).

[Book Now](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/oita/beppu/oita/yufu/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184)

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

Yufuin can be easily explored on foot, and the majority of the town's attractions are located along the 1.5 kilometer long main walking route between Yufuin Station and Lake Kinrinko. Walking the entire route takes 20-30 minutes, not counting any stops along the way.

Yufuin's baths are spread out all across the town, and many of them are difficult to access without private transportation. [Bicycles](e2210.html) are a convenient method for traveling to the more remote baths or for seeing the town quickly. Rental bicycles can be obtained at Yufuin Station for 250 yen per hour or 1250 yen per day. [Taxi](e2021.html) and [rental car](e2024.html) are other options for getting around. Nissan and Ekiren have rental car outlets in Yufuin, while many more outlets are found in nearby [Beppu](e4700.html).