---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4954.html
title: Kumano Hayatama Taisha
description: Visitor guide for Kumano Hayatama Taisha, one of the thre Kumano shrines (Kumano Sanzan).
keywords: kumano, hayatama, taisha, shrine, shingu
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 344
char_count: 2508
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:20:39
---

Kumano Hayatama Taisha (熊野速玉大社) is one of [Kumano](e4950.html)'s three important shrines alongside [Hongu Taisha](e4953.html) and [Nachi Taisha](e4955.html). It is located in Shingu City on the southeast coast of the Kii Peninsula.

While the current shrine's buildings were rebuilt relatively recently, Hayatama Taisha has occupied the same spot on the Kumano Riverbank since at least the 12th century. In addition, religious artifacts that date back to the 3rd century are evidence that the area has been a site of worship for much longer. According to one ancient creation myth, the Kumano deities first descended to earth on a rock not far from the shrine.

As a result of its divine contact, the rock has been worshiped as a sacred object. An ancient tree (estimated to be over 800 years old) is located inside the shrine compound and is also considered sacred. These two [kami](e2056.html) (Shinto deities) highlight the importance of nature worship to the area's beginnings.

Also on display in Hayatama Taisha's Treasure Hall are over a dozen national treasures, including offerings brought by pilgrims on the [Kumano Kodo](e4952.html). The collection housed in this small museum is impressive, with more national treasures than most major museums.

Hayatama Taisha can be reached in a 15 minute walk from JR Shingu Station.

[How to get to and around Kumano](e4951.html)