---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4609.html
title: Kagoshima Food Guide (Satsuma Cuisine)
description: Basic introduction to some of the local food and dishes of Kagoshima Prefecture.
keywords: kagoshima, food, guide, satsuma, cuisine, dishes, drinks, age, shochu, torisashi, tonkotsu, kibinago
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 1937
char_count: 12921
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:53:34
---

Gourmet-dori in downtown Kagoshima

Kagoshima's cuisine is also known as Satsuma Cuisine (薩摩料理, Satsuma Ryōri) after the old name of [Kagoshima Prefecture](/list/e1246.html). It is one of the most distinct local cuisines because of Kagoshima's isolated location at the southern end of [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html). Travelers may notice some influences of [Okinawa cuisine](e7128.html), as Okinawa was controlled by Satsuma for a few hundred years in the past. A wide variety of restaurants can be found in downtown [Kagoshima](e4600.html), for example along Gourmet-dori ("Gourmet Street").

* 

  Satsumaage

  Popular across the country, Satsumaage is one of the most famous dishes of [Kagoshima](/list/e1246.html). It mostly consists of a paste of minced fish that is then deep fried. The type of fish used in the paste can vary, but is often bonito, mackerel or sardines. Some other ingredients are also included in small quantities to add a bit of flavor, such as pickled ginger and vegetables.
* 

  Kibinago

  Kibinago is a small herring fish that is typically served raw as [sashimi](e2044.html) with a vinegared soybean paste. Sometimes called "silver sprat" in English, kibinago are about 10 centimeters long and often used as bait for tuna.
* 

  Torisashi

  Torisashi is raw chicken ("tori" in Japanese). Readers may recognize the "sashi" in torisashi from [sashimi](e2044.html) (thinly sliced raw seafood). Needless to say, the chicken must be served very fresh. Both the meat of the bird and the heart are often served. The dish is usually accompanied by ground ginger and soy sauce, which is used as a dipping sauce.
* 

  Tonkotsu

  Tonkotsu is a stew made with pork and miso that is served with vegetables, such as daikon and konnyaku. The pork is cooked very slowly so that it becomes very soft and the bones can also be eaten. A large amount of shochu is added into the broth as well, which gives tonkotsu a slightly sweet flavour in addition to the savory taste of the meat and miso.
* 

  Kurobuta and Kuroushi

  Kurobuta and Kuroushi literally mean, respectively, "black pork" and "black beef". The name comes from the color of the animal's skin, not from the actual meat itself. The Kurobuta are Berkshire pork that were originally imported to Kagoshima about 400 years ago, while the Kuroushi were bred in [Kagoshima](/list/e1246.html). Many shops will prominently advertise either Kurobuta or Kuroushi as one of their dishes. Kurobuta is often eaten as [tonkatsu](e2339.html) (breaded, deep fried pork cutlet, see photo) or [shabu shabu](e2315.html) (a hot pot of thinly sliced meat and vegetables), while Kuroushi can be enjoyed as a traditional Western steak.
* 

  Satsuma Shochu

  Shochu is a clear, distilled [liquor](e2037.html) with an alcohol content of about 25%, which is popular across Japan, but especially in [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html). The shochu that is unique to Kagoshima is made from local sweet potatoes (satsumaimo). Restaurants in Kagoshima will often have a variety of Satsuma Shochu on offer. It can be enjoyed straight, on the rocks (with ice) or mixed with hot water. Shochu is also used in cooking.

[How to get to and around Kagoshima](e4604.html)