---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4411.html
title: Nagasaki Kunchi Festival
description: Visitor guide for Nagasaki Kunchi, the city's most famous festival.
keywords: nagasaki, kunchi, festival, matsuri, okunchi
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 1942
char_count: 12993
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:26:52
---

The Nagasaki Kunchi (長崎くんち) is the [festival](e2063.html) of Suwa Shrine, held annually in [Nagasaki](e2162.html) on October 7-9. The festival has been celebrated for about 400 years and incorporates different aspects of Chinese and Dutch cultures, which have played a role in the city's history. The festival's name is believed to come from ku-nichi ("9th day"), the ninth day of the ninth month of the [lunar calendar](e2272.html).

The [festival](e2063.html)'s highlights are the dance and show performances by groups representing [Nagasaki](e2162.html)'s various city districts. Each district (odori-cho), participates only once every seven years, so this festival remains fresh to even the regular viewer.

Participants push a festival float

About five to seven groups perform each year, presenting traditional Japanese dances, Chinese influenced dragon dances or performances involving large floats, many of which are shaped like ships. While some performances are calm and peaceful, others get wild and hectic.

Performances are held at four main venues with paid seating and/or standing areas in the morning and evening of October 7 and in the mornings of October 8 and 9. The four main stages are Suwa Shrine, Otabisho, Yasaka Shrine and Chuo Koen.

Unfortunately, it is virtually impossible for the average foreign tourist to purchase tickets for paid seating because they sell out quickly several weeks before the event through sales channels that require Japanese language skills. However, at some of the main venues, it is possible to take a glimpse at the performances without a ticket, but these areas tend to get very crowded, and people arrive early to capture the best spots.

Yasaka Shrine

Performances are also staged at a few other locations across the city, for which no tickets are available and people can watch freely. Among them is the Kamome Hiroba plaza in front of Nagasaki Station, where most groups have appearances on some of the festival days (in 2025 on October 7 between 11:00 and 15:00 and on October 9 between 14:00 and 16:00).

It is also possible to follow the floats and dancers as they walk through the city's districts and pay visits to supporting shops and households during the rest of the day. Festival schedules in Japanese and English are available at tourist information desks and hotels.

The festival takes place in the city streets

[How to get to and around Nagasaki](e4410.html)