---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4190.html
title: Omiwa Shrine (Omiwajinja)
description: Visitor guide for Omiya Shrine in Sakurai City, Nara Prefecture.
keywords: omiwa, shrine, omiwajinja, jinja, miwa, mountain, mount
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 395
char_count: 2962
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:06:35
---

Omiwa Shrine (大神神社, Ōmiwa-jinja) is an ancient [Shinto](e2056.html) [shrine](e2059.html) along the [Yamanobe-no-michi walking trail](e4189.html) in [Sakurai](e4175.html), [Nara Prefecture](/list/e1228.html). Surrounded by thick forest at the base of Mount Miwa, the exact age of the shrine is unknown, but Omiwa is thought to be one of the oldest, if not the oldest shrine in Japan. The shrine has been hugely important for many centuries.

[Shrines](e2059.html) usually have a main hall where the deity is enshrined, but Omiwa Shrine predates this custom and has no main hall (although it does have a prayer hall), instead directing worship to Mount Miwa, which stands behind the complex. Okuninushi became associated with Mount Miwa, and the mountain is believed to be the embodiment of this very prominent [Shinto deity](e2056.html).

The mountain is worshiped through a triple [torii gate](e2059.html) (mitsu-torii) at the back of the shrine's prayer hall. The triple torii style is ancient and extremely rare, and to see the gate, visitors must inquire at the shrine office and be guided by a priest. A similar triple torii gate stands at Hibara Shrine, an auxiliary shrine of Omiwa Shrine, a 20 minute walk north along the [Yamanobe-no-michi Trail](e4189.html).

The mitsu-torii at Hibara Shrine

Omiwa Shrine is located at the southern end of the [Yamanobe-no-michi Trail](e4189.html), a ten minute walk from Miwa Station on the JR Sakurai Line. Miwa Station is connected with JR Nara Station (25 minutes, 330 yen one way) and Sakurai Station (3 minutes, 150 yen) twice per hour. The shrine is also a ten minute [taxi](e2021.html) ride from Sakurai Station (about 1000 yen one way).

[How to get to and around Sakurai](e4176.html)