---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4028.html
title: Suggested Osaka walks, itineraries and side trips
description: Suggested walks, itineraries and schedules for Osaka.
keywords: osaka, suggested, itineraries, walks, schedules, tours, side trips
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 2620
char_count: 18124
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:52:41
---

One could spend days in [Osaka](e2157.html) and not run out of things to do. Below are some [itinerary ideas](e2400.html) for exploring this great city's intriguing history, traditional culture, and renowned [food](e4022.html).

* 

  [Osaka Full Day Walk](e4028_osaka_deep.html)

  A full day walking tour that explores attractions that are synonymous with Osaka's unique character, some of which are not generally well-known to tourists. Starting from [Shinsekai](e4012.html) the route leads north until finishing on the [Dotonbori](e4001.html) entertainment street.
* 

  [Osaka History Walk](e4028_osaka_history.html)

  This 1-day itinerary connects some of Osaka's best history-related sites, including its [castle](e4000.html), a couple of museums and the city's oldest temple and shrine. It combines walking with the use of subways.
* 

  [Eclectic Osaka 1-Day Itinerary](e4028_osaka_eclectic.html)

  Osaka is an eclectic city, and this itinerary focuses on that by taking in some of the best of the city's different kinds of attractions. Starting on [Tenjinbashi-suji shopping street](e4024.html), the route then goes back in time to explore [Osaka Castle](e4000.html) before visiting the modern [Abeno Harukas](e4026.html) skyscraper and the [Minami](e4001.html) downtown area. This route is done using a mixture of walking and trains.


[Read our Osaka Hotel Guide](/hotels/osaka.html)

* + [

    Sponsored](/link.html?/e/e4028.html+hotel+kaneyoshi+1+6+sponsored+https://kaneyosi.jp/)

    [Kaneyoshi Ryokan](/link.html?/e/e4028.html+hotel+kaneyoshi+1+6+sponsored+https://kaneyosi.jp/)

    A modern Japanese inn in Dotombori. the center of Osaka. 2 subway stations nearby. Close to many shops and Osaka Castle.

    [View site](/link.html?/e/e4028.html+hotel+kaneyoshi+1+6+sponsored+https://kaneyosi.jp/)

    Sponsored