---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4494.html
title: Matsura Historical Museum
description: Visitor guide for the Matsura Historical Museum, a museum about the Matsura Clan housed in the former residence of one of its descendants.
keywords: hirado, matsura, historical, museum, nagasaki, japan
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 350
char_count: 2576
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:26:17
---

The Matsura Historical Museum (松浦史料博物館, Matsura Shiryō Hakubutsukan) is located on a hillside overlooking Hirado Port in the preserved former residence of the Matsura Clan which ruled over [Hirado](e4490.html) from the 11th to the 19th century.

The residence has been located on these same grounds since the [Kamakura Period](e2133.html) (1192 - 1333) and served not only as residential space but also as the administrative offices of the domain until the governing aspects were moved to [Hirado Castle](e4492.html). The residence was rebuilt repeatedly over the centuries, and the current buildings date to 1893. They were donated to the prefecture in 1955 along with a large collection of the family's heirlooms.

Large glass display cases are set up around the residence

The atmospheric building complex now houses an excellent exhibition of these items, including grand [samurai](e2127.html) arms and armor, impressive [fusuma doors](e2007.html), intricately designed lacquer boxes and other household items and treasures. In addition, there are various documents, maps, globes, drawings and diagrams of ships, and other items related to the clan's dealings with international traders on display throughout the wooden building's rooms and corridors.

Visitors can also stroll around the gardens and visit the residence's Kanuntei tea house where they can relax and enjoy a [matcha tea set](e2096.html) for 1100 yen. The museum also includes a nice cafe and gift shop in the main building.

Kanuntei Tea House on the museum grounds

The museum is a 5-10 minute walk uphill from the Hirado Bus Terminal.

[How to get to and around Hirado](e4491.html)