---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4107.html
title: Kyoto to Nara\: How to get to and around Nara
description: How to get to and around Nara.
keywords: nara, access, orientation, directions, train, bus, transportation, directions, getting there, bus, kintetsu, jr, trains
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 2010
char_count: 13709
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:45:45
---

From/To:

KyotoTokyoOsakaKansai AirportKoyasan

Two railway companies, JR and Kintetsu, provide train connections between [Kyoto](e2158.html) and [Nara](e2165.html):

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

Miyakoji [rapid](e2016.html) trains operate every 30 minutes between [Kyoto](e2158.html) Station and JR [Nara](e2165.html) Station. The one way trip takes 45 minutes, costs 720 yen and is covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html). For the same fare, the trip could also be made by twice-hourly [local](e2016.html) trains in 75 minutes.

Twice-hourly [limited express](e2016.html) trains take about 35 minutes and cost 1280 yen for the one way trip from Kyoto Station to Kintetsu Nara Station. Alternatively, there are hourly direct [express](e2016.html) trains that take 45 minutes and cost 760 yen one way. There are additional connections by express trains if you do not mind transferring once at Yamato-Saidaiji Station. The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) is not valid on Kintetsu trains.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

[Nara](e2165.html) is served by two railway companies, Kintetsu Railways and JR West. The Kintetsu station is an underground station just a few steps from [Kofukuji](e4101.html) and [Nara Park](e4103.html), while the JR station is a 15-20 minute walk west of Kofukuji and the park. A network of [buses](e2015.html), operated by Nara Kotsu, connects the two stations with all sites of interest. All major [IC cards](e2359_003.html) are accepted on the trains and buses around Nara, including Suica and Icoca.

Many of Nara's main attractions are found in the centrally located [Nara Park](e4103.html) and can be visited on foot. The great temples [Toshodaiji](e4106.html), [Yakushiji](e4105.html) and [Horyuji](e4104.html), however, stand several kilometers outside of central Nara and are best accessed by bus or train.

The **Nara Bus Pass** provides unlimited use of Nara Kotsu buses around Nara. It comes as a 1-Day Pass for 600 yen that covers central Nara and the [Toshodaiji](e4106.html)/[Yakushiji](e4105.html) area, a 1-Day Pass Wide for 1100 yen that additionally covers the [Horyuji](e4104.html) area, and a 2-Day Pass for 1650 yen that additionally covers the [Asuka](e4175.html) area. The pass is on sale at the bus ticket offices across the street from Kintetsu Nara Station and inside JR Nara Station.

A sort of an extension of the Nara Bus Pass' 1-day wide version are the 1-day and 2-day versions of the [Kintetsu Rail Pass](e2357_006.html), which are available only to foreign tourists. In addition to the buses around Nara (as far as [Horyuji](e4104.html)), these Kintetsu Rail Pass versions also cover unlimited rides on Kintetsu trains (except the supplement fee for [limited express](e2016.html#category) trains) between [Osaka](e2157.html), [Nara](e2165.html) and [Kyoto](e2158.html). The 1-day pass costs 1900 yen while the 2-day pass costs 3700 yen.