---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e4013.html
title: Osaka Shopping Guide
description: A guide to shopping in Osaka's many arcades and malls.
keywords: osaka, shopping, guide, arcade, mall, shinsaibashi, dotombori, tenjinbashi, doguya
content_type: regional_attraction
word_count: 2964
char_count: 21067
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:46:48
---

[Osaka](e2157.html) has several world class [shopping](e2450.html) districts and miles of shopping arcades, malls and streets. Osaka's shopping combines upscale, brand name and designer goods with inexpensive thrift shops and discount chains.

The city's two largest shopping districts are [Umeda](e4009.html) in the north and [Namba](e4001.html) in the south. The Umeda area (also known as [Kita](e4009.html)) is served by [JR Osaka Station](e4020.html) and Umeda Station, while the Namba area (also known as [Minami](e4001.html)) is served by Namba Station. Both areas have large concentrations of [department stores](e2072.html), shopping arcades and some of Japan's most extensive underground shopping malls.

Tenjinbashi-suji

In between [Umeda](e4009.html) and [Namba](e4001.html) is the covered shopping arcade **Shinsaibashi-suji**, one of Osaka's oldest and busiest shopping destinations, which runs about 600 meters in length. Shinsaibashi-suji's collection of brand name shops, chain stores, independent boutiques and variety of [restaurants](e2036.html) makes it popular with nearly every kind of shopper. At Dotombori, Shinsaibashi-suji becomes Ebisubashi-suji, though the same shopping atmosphere remains.

Some of the most unique shopping is found in [Osaka](e2157.html)'s specialized districts. **Amerikamura** is the city's best known center of youth fashion and contains hundreds of small, inexpensive boutiques. Nearby, the Horie and Minami-senba districts cater to slighter older, more sophisticated shoppers with prices to match.

Den Den Town

Another specialized area is Nipponbashi's **Den Den Town**, dedicated to electronics, gaming and [otaku](e2070.html)-related goods and often compared to [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s [Akihabara](e3003.html) district. **Doguya-suji** near Namba Station is [Osaka](e2157.html)'s shopping destination for professional and amateur chefs. This short arcade sells all manner of cooking accessories, from restaurant-grade stove tops to staff uniforms, pots, pans and dishes.

For visitors interested in a low-key shopping environment with lower prices, **Tenjinbashi-suji** shopping arcade boasts a varied collection of local shops in the northeastern area of [Osaka](e2157.html), leading to [Tenmangu Shrine](e4024.html). Claiming to be the longest shopping arcade in Japan at 2.6 kilometers, [Tenjinbashi-suji](e4024.html) has seemingly endless shopping options.

Takashimaya's flagship department store

Many of Japan's leading **department stores** have their headquarters and flagship stores in Osaka. The largest concentration of them is found in the [Umeda district](e4009.html) inside and around the [Osaka Station City](e4020.html) complex, where large Hankyu, Daimaru, Hanshin and Mitsukoshi-Isetan stores can be found. The [Namba district](e4001.html) hosts the flagship store of Takashimaya, while Japan's largest [department store](e2072.html), owned by Kintetsu, was opened in 2014 in the [Abeno Harukas](e4026.html) complex next to [Tennoji Station](e4025.html).

Several **modern shopping malls** have also sprouted up in the city. [Grand Front Osaka](e4027.html) opened in 2013 just north of JR Osaka Station with a wide array of shopping and dining opportunities in an elegant environment. Namba Parks near [Namba Station](e4001.html) combines a large green space with shopping and dining. Tempozan Marketplace in the [Osaka Bay Area](e4010.html) is another shopping mall with entertainment and dining facilities. Last but not least, Expocity, another massive shopping and entertainment complex, opened in 2015 just outside of the [Expo '70 Park](e4029.html).

**Rinku Town**, located outside of the city near [Kansai International Airport](e2033.html), is a whole town devoted to shopping and shoppers. The main shopping destinations in Rinku Town are the Rinku Premium Outlet Mall, the Seacle shopping mall and an Aeon shopping mall.

Walking through Namba Parks

[How to get to and around Osaka](e4006.html)