---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5473.html
title: Ibukijima Island Travel Guide
description: Visitor guide for Ibukijima Island, a small island off the coast of Shikoku.
keywords: kagawa, ibukijima, ibuki, shima, jima, island, setouchi, triennale, seto, uchi, art, festival
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 444
char_count: 3128
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:20:57
---

Ibukijima (伊吹島) is a small island off the coast of [Shikoku](/list/e1107.html) and the westernmost inhabited island of [Kagawa Prefecture](/list/e1233.html). Although only about one square kilometer in size, the tiny island is Japan's largest producer of sardines and anchovies, which are caught in the surrounding [Seto Inland Sea](e5445.html) and processed at plants that line Ibukijima's western coast. The peak of the fishing season around the island takes place from June to August.

Easily explored on foot, the center of Ibukijima is covered by a small, weathered fishing village with a disorienting web of narrow lanes. The village is also home to temples and shrines, including the Ibuki Hachimangu Shrine at the island's center, a handful of shops and restaurants, and several viewpoints. Despite its fishing industry, Ibukijima is suffering from population decline, and some of the effects can be seen in a closed down school and numerous abandoned homes found around the island.

As a means to combat this, Ibukijima has joined several other islands in the [Seto Inland Sea](e5445.html) to promote itself as a destination to see [contemporary art](e2115.html) and to host the [Setouchi Triennale](e5410.html) art festival. A couple of permanent art works from previous festivals remain on the island and can also be viewed outside of the festival's periods.

Sardine and anchovy processing plants along the island's eastern coast

Kanonji Station, the nearest train station to Ibukijima, can be reached by JR trains from [Marugame](e5465.html) (20-45 minutes, 630-2320 yen by local or limited express train), [Takamatsu](e5400.html) (50-75 minutes, 1240-3370 yen by local or limited express train) or [Okayama](e5700.html) (60-110 minutes, 1670-3800 yen by local or limited express train).

From Kanonji Station, there are buses to Kanonji Port (10 minutes, 100 yen one way, departures every 2 hours) from where there is a ferries depart every 2-4 hours to Ibukijima (25 minutes, 600 yen one way). Some of the buses are timed with ferry departures and arrivals. Alternatively, it is a 20 minute walk or 800 yen [taxi](e2021.html) ride between the station and the port.

[How to get to and around Marugame](e5466.html)