---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5453.html
title: How to get to and around Kotohira\: Access, Transportation and Orientation
description: How to get to and around Kotohira.
keywords: kotohira, access, orientation, transportation, how, to, get, around, directions, train, jr, kotoden
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 396
char_count: 2981
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:20:10
---

### How to get to Kotohira

#### From Takamatsu   *([how to get to Takamatsu](e5404.html))*

Two train companies, JR and Kotoden, operate trains between [Takamatsu](e5400.html) and [Kotohira](e5450.html):

Kotoden trains depart from Takamatsu-Chikko Station, located a short walk from JR Takamatsu Station and next to [Takamatsu Castle](e5403.html), and travel to Kotoden Kotohira Station every 30 minutes. The one way trip takes about an hour, costs 730 yen and is not covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html).

Alternatively, local JR trains connect [Takamatsu](e5400.html) and [Kotohira](e5450.html) once per hour. The one way trip takes about an hour, costs 980 yen and is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html).

#### From Takamatsu Airport

Direct [buses](e2015.html) operate between Takamatsu Airport and JR Kotohira and Kotoden Kotohira stations. The one way trip takes about 50 minutes and costs 2000 yen per person.

#### From Okayama   *([how to get to Okayama](e5703.html))*

Hourly JR Nanpu [limited express](e2016.html) trains run directly between [Okayama](e5700.html) and [Kotohira](e5450.html). The one way trip takes around one hour and costs about 3000 yen. Alternatively, the trip by [local train](e2016.html) takes around 90 minutes, costs 1450 yen one way and may involve a transfer of trains along the way. Either approach is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html).

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](/e/e2196.html).

JR Kotohira and Kotoden Kotohira stations are located a short walk away from each other in the center of town and within walking distance of [Kotohira](e5450.html)'s attractions. The steps to [Kompirasan Shrine](e5451.html) begin about a ten minute walk southwest of the train stations. [Kanamaruza Theater](e5452.html) is located about 200 meters off the approach to Kompirasan.