---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5303.html
title: Historic Village of Hokkaido (Kaitaku no Mura)
description: Visitor guide for the Historic Village of Hokkaido, an open air museum near Sapporo.
keywords: historic, village, hokkaido, kaitaku, mura, sapporo
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1794
char_count: 12302
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:12:37
---

Historic Village of Hokkaido

The **Historic Village of Hokkaido** (開拓の村, Kaitaku no Mura) is an [open air museum](e2421.html) in the suburbs of [Sapporo](e2163.html). It exhibits about 60 typical buildings from all over [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html), dating from the [Meiji](e2130.html) and [Taisho](e2129.html) Periods (1868 to 1926), the era when Hokkaido's development was carried out on a large scale. There are four different sections: a town, fishing village, farm village and a mountain village.

The **Hokkaido Museum** (北海道博物館, Hokkaido Hakubutsukan) documents the history and nature of [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html) and is located about a ten minute walk from the open air museum. The museum focuses on five main themes, including [Ainu](e2244.html) culture, history and wildlife.

Hokkaido Museum

The Historic Village of Hokkaido is located in the Nopporo Forest Park outside of central [Sapporo](e2163.html). From Sapporo Station, take a local train to Shinrin Koen Station (15 minutes, 360 yen, frequent departures) from where the museum and open air museum can be reached in a short bus ride (5-10 minutes, 240 yen, 1-2 buses per hour) or a 20-30 minute walk. Get off at Hokkaidō Hakubutsukan (北海道博物館) for the museum or Kaitaku no mura (開拓の村) for the open-air museum. Alternatively, you can board the same bus from Shin-Sapporo Station, which adds ten minutes to the bus ride. The buses are bound for Kaitaku no mura (開拓の村).

[How to get to and around Sapporo](e5306.html)