---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5055.html
title: Nambu Ironware (Nambu Tekki)
description: Basic introduction to Nambu Ironware, one of the traditional crafts of Morioka.
keywords: nambu, ironware, morioka, traditional, craft, nambu, tekki, kettle
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 358
char_count: 2586
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:36:56
---

An ironware artisan working on a traditional kettle

Nambu Ironware (南部鉄器, Nanbu Tekki) is a local traditional craft of [Iwate](/list/e1204.html), which is primarily made in [Morioka](e5050.html) and Oshu cities. It is said to have its beginnings in the late 17th century, when the ruling Nambu clan invited an ironware artisan from [Kyoto](e2158.html) to create a water vessel for the [tea ceremony](e2096.html). Classic handmade ironware pieces include kettles, teapots and wind chimes, while modern pieces have updated designs and come in a variety of colors.

Nambu kettles have outstanding heat distribution and retention, and do not rust easily. Water boiled in a Nambu kettles is known to be soft and delicious, as the iron supposedly gets rid of the chlorine that is typically present in tap water. All these qualities have contributed to the high praise and recognition of Nambu Tekki vessels, which remain highly regarded today.

There are a number of Nambu Tekki manufacturers in Iwate Prefecture, and the more famous ones are Iwachu in Morioka City and Oigen in Oshu City. A handful of Nambu Ironware studios and shops can be found in [downtown Morioka](e5054.html) in the vicinity of the castle park. Visitors can see a variety of Nambu Tekki kettles and pots as well as pick up small, unique ironware souvenirs.

A wall of Nambu Tekki kettles at Kamasada, one of the studios in downtown Morioka

[How to get to and around Morioka](e5051.html)