---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5210.html
title: Hakone Round Course
description: Introducing a recommended round course of visiting the Hakone region.
keywords: hakone, round, course, trip, free, pass, suggested, route, itinerary, daytrip
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1842
char_count: 12601
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:44:11
---

A popular and attractive way of visiting [Hakone](e5200.html) is by circling the region with five different means of transport (train, cablecar, ropeway, boat and bus), using the [Hakone Free Pass](e2358_008.html).

The round course outlined below starts and ends in Hakone-Yumoto and circles the [Hakone](e5200.html) region in the counter-clockwise direction. Of course, it is also possible to follow the course in the opposite direction or to start and end somewhere different.

If you leave early in the morning, it is possible to completed the Hakone round course in a one day trip from [Tokyo](e2164.html). However, we recommend allocating two days and one night to your visit, preferably with a stay at a [ryokan](e2029.html) with [hot spring](e2292.html) baths.

* 

  Hakone Tozan Railway

  Hakone-Yumoto to Gora

  35 minutes, departures every 15-20 minutes

  The [Hakone Tozan Railway](e5202.html) winds itself through a narrow, densely wooded valley, gaining more than 300 meters in altitude. Several [hot springs](e5209.html) and the [Hakone Open Air Museum](e5208.html) are located along its route.
* 

  Hakone Tozan Cablecar

  Gora to Sounzan

  10 minutes, departures every 15 minutes

  The [Hakone Art Museum](e5211.html) and [Gora Park](e5216.html) are located in Gora along the cablecar route.
* 

  Hakone Ropeway

  Sounzan to Togendai

  30 minutes, constant departures

  Nice views of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html) and the national park can be enjoyed from the [Hakone Ropeway](e5223.html) when visibility is good. A transfer of ropeways is required at [Owakudani](e5203.html), where travelers can observe volcanic activities.
* 

  Hakone Sightseeing Boat

  Togendai to Hakone-machi

  30 minutes, departures every 30-60 minutes

  Nice views of [Lake Ashinoko](e5201.html), the surrounding wooded mountains and [Mount Fuji](e2172.html) can be enjoyed from the pirate ship shaped boats when visibility is good. Most ships operate from Togendai to Hakone-machi and then continue to Moto-Hakone.
* 

  On foot

  Hakone-machi to Moto-Hakone

  20-30 minutes

  The [Checkpoint Museum](e5205.html), [Detached Palace Garden](e5207.html) and the [Ancient Cedar Avenue](e5205.html) are located along this attractive walk from Hakone-machi to Moto-Hakone. Alternatively you could continue to Moto-Hakone by boat or take a bus.
* 

  Hakone Tozan Bus (line H or K)

  Moto-Hakone to Hakone-Yumoto

  35 minutes, departures every 15-20 minutes

  Visit [Hakone Shrine](e5204.html) in Moto-Hakone and then return by bus to Yumoto, possibly with a stop at [Yunessun](e5209.html#yunessun) along the way (bus line H). Alternatively, you could walk a section of the [Old Tokaido](e5205.html) and catch a bus from the Amazake Chaya or Hatajuku back to Yumoto (bus line K).

[How to get to and around Hakone](e5206.html)