---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5025.html
title: Sanriku Coast Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for the Sanriku Coast, the coastal areas along the eastern coast of the Tohoku Region of Japan.
keywords: sanriku, region, coast, recovery, national, park, tsunami, earthquake, travel, guide, sightseeing, trip, tourism, tourist, visitor, information
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 518
char_count: 4646
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 22:43:39
---

The Sanriku Coast (三陸海岸, Sanriku Kaigan) is a dramatic, rocky shoreline with countless bays, cliffs and coves that stretches for over 300 kilometers along the Pacific Coast of the [Tohoku Region](/list/e1102.html), spanning [Aomori](/list/e1202.html), [Iwate](/list/e1204.html) and [Miyagi](/list/e1206.html) prefectures. Due to its natural beauty, the coastline has long been a popular tourist attraction, and a considerable part of it has been designated as [national park](e2325.html) (Sanriku Recovery National Park).

The Sanriku Coast has periodically been struck by large tsunami. On [March 11, 2011](e5027.html), the strongest ever recorded [earthquake](e2116.html) in Japan triggered a huge tsunami that hit the Pacific Coast of northeastern Japan and was particularly destructive along the Sanriku Coast. Around 20,000 lives were lost, and tens of thousands of buildings were washed away. Many cities along the Sanriku Coast lost entire districts, while several towns and villages were almost completely destroyed.

The [reconstruction process](/blog/recovery/) has progressed well but remains ongoing. Many tourist attractions along the coast reopened within just a few months of the disaster, and tourism is considered one of the best ways to revitalize the area and keep the event from being forgotten.

* [](/e/e5034.html)

  1

  Nature

  [Kitayamazaki Coast•](/e/e5034.html)

  Most spectacular section of the Sanriku Coast.

  4.6

  

  30
* [](/e/e5031.html)

  2

  Zoo/Wildlife

  [Tashiro Island•](/e/e5031.html)

  Small, rural island with a large cat population.

  4.3

  

  25
* [](/e/e5029.html)

  3

  Beach

  [Jodogahama•](/e/e5029.html)

  Beautiful beach on a nice peninsula.

  4.2

  

  49
* [](/e/e5043.html)

  4

  Shopping

  [Shiogama Fish Market•](/e/e5043.html)

  A large fish market open to visiting tourists.

  4.2

  

  21
* [](/e/e5038_memorial.html)

  5

  Museum

  [Iwate Tsunami Memorial•](/e/e5038_memorial.html)

  Excellent museum about the 2011 tsunami

  14
* [](/e/e5036_school.html)

  6

  Museum

  [Kesennuma City Memorial Museum•](/e/e5036_school.html)

  Tsunami-hit high school turned into a museum

  13
* [](/e/e5028.html)

  7

  Nature

  [Ryusendo Cave](/e/e5028.html)

  One of Japan's best limestone caves.

  4.3

  

  35
* [](/e/e5042.html)

  8

  Shrine

  [Shiogama Shrine](/e/e5042.html)

  One of the region's most important shrines.

  4.2

  

  30
* [](/e/e5038.html)

  9

  Neighborhood

  [Rikuzentakata](/e/e5038.html)

  Home city of the miracle pine tree.

  3.9

  

  39
* [](/e/e5036.html)

  10

  Neighborhood

  [Kesennuma](/e/e5036.html)

  Fishing port town heavily hit by the tsunami.

  3.9

  

  57
* [](/e/e5039.html)

  11

  Neighborhood

  [Minamisanriku](/e/e5039.html)

  One of the worst hit towns along the coast.

  3.7

  

  34
* [](/e/e5032.html)

  12

  Museum

  [Manga Museum](/e/e5032.html)

  Commemorating manga artist Ishinomori Shotaro.

  3.7

  

  22
* [](/e/e5044.html)

  13

  Neighborhood

  [Miyako](/e/e5044.html)

  Port city known for its Jodogahama Beach.

  3.6

  

  34
* [](/e/e5040.html)

  14

  Neighborhood

  [Ishinomaki](/e/e5040.html)

  Port city badly affected by the tsunami.

  3.4

  

  73
* [](/e/e5046.html)

  15

  Neighborhood

  [Kamaishi](/e/e5046.html)

  The birthplace of the iron industry in Japan.

  3.2

  

  27
* [](/e/e5041.html)

  16

  Neighborhood

  [Shiogama](/e/e5041.html)

  Fishing town between Sendai and Matsushima.

  3.1

  

  49
* [](/e/e5035.html)

  17

  Nature

  [Goishi Coast](/e/e5035.html)

  Nice coastline south of Ofunato.

  13
* [](/e/e5033.html)

  18

  Park

  [Hiyoriyama Park](/e/e5033.html)

  Hilltop park in central Ishinomaki City.

  12
* [](/e/e5047.html)

  19

  Temple

  [Kamaishi Daikannon](/e/e5047.html)

  Roughly 50 meter tall statue of Kannon.

  11
* [](/e/e5045.html)

  20

  Shopping

  [Miyako Fish Market](/e/e5045.html)

  Public market for fresh seafood and produce.

  10
* [](/e/e5037.html)

  21

  Museum

  [Rias Ark Museum](/e/e5037.html)

  Contemporary art and history museum.

  9
* [](/e/e5049.html)

  22

  Neighborhood

  [Onagawa](/e/e5049.html)

  Port town badly hit by the tsunami.

  8
* [](/e/e5030.html)

  23

  Museum

  [Iron Museum](/e/e5030.html)

  Dedicated to the local iron and steel industry.

  7
* [](/e/e5036_fish.html)

  24

  Shopping

  [Kesennuma Fish Market](/e/e5036_fish.html)

  One of Japan's largest fish markets.

  6
* [](/e/e5048.html)

  25

  Museum

  [Sant Juan Bautista Museum](/e/e5048.html)

  About a locally built Spanish-style galleon.

  4

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Sanriku Coast](/e/e5025.html)

[Getting to and around Sanriku Coast](/e/e5026.html)
[See access info](/e/e5026.html)