---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5403.html
title: Takamatsu Castle
description: Visitor guide for Takamatsu Castle.
keywords: takamatsu, castle, tamamo, takamatsujo, tamamojo
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1650
char_count: 11043
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:50:27
---

Takamatsu Castle (高松城, Takamatsujō), also known as Tamamo Castle, was built in 1590 adjacent to the Seto Inland Sea. It is one of the few [Japanese castles](e2296.html) built along a waterfront, and features saltwater moats that draw directly from the sea. The Ikoma Clan ruled from the castle for 54 years before their fief was given to the Matsudaira Clan, relatives of the Tokugawa Shogun, who kept the region for the remainder of the [Edo Period](e2128.html).

Takamatsu Castle's keep was destroyed during the [Meiji Period](e2130.html), but there are plans to reconstruct it in the future. A first step towards this goal was achieved in 2013 when the restoration of the castle tower's foundation was completed after many years of work.

Restored castle tower foundation

Few of the castle's original buildings remain in the castle park today. Besides moats and walls, only the Asahimon Gate and two turrets, the Ushitora Yagura and the Tsukimi Yagura, are still standing. Inside the castle walls, visitors can enjoy a well kept garden.

At the center of the castle park stands the Hiunkaku building with large tatami rooms. Constructed in 1917 as a residence and governmental office, it is used today as an exhibition space and a community hall where tea ceremony and flower arrangement classes are held.

The Hiunkaku building in the castle garden

Takamatsu Castle is a short walk from JR Takamatsu Station and directly next to Kotoden Takamatsu-Chikko Station, the terminal station of Kotoden Railways.

[How to get to and around Takamatsu](e5404.html)