---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5205.html
title: Old Tokaido and Hakone Checkpoint
description: Visitor guide for the old Tokaido and the former checkpoint in Hakone.
keywords: hakone, old, tokaido, road, checkpoint, sekisho, kyu, kaido
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1834
char_count: 12275
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:44:07
---

Hakone Checkpoint

[Hakone](e5200.html) used to be a checkpoint to control traffic along the Tokaido (東海道, Tōkaidō), the main highway which linked [Tokyo](e2164.html) with [Kyoto](e2158.html) during the feudal [Edo Period](e2128.html). Due to the mountainous terrain and lack of alternative routes, it was a particularly important checkpoint to restrict the flow of people and goods into and out of Tokyo.

Today, a short, cedar lined passage of the old Tokaido and a reconstruction of the Hakone Checkpoint (箱根関所, Hakone Sekisho) are located between Moto-Hakone and Hakone-machi along the shore of [Lake Ashinoko](e5201.html).

In 2007, the reconstruction of the Hakone Checkpoint was completed after three years of construction work. The checkpoint now appears true to its original form, including gates, fence, housing for officers and foot soldiers, a prison chamber and a lookout tower. The Hakone Sekisho Shiryokan, a small museum with various related exhibits, stands nearby.

Cedar Avenue between Moto-Hakone and Hakone-machi

It is possible to walk a longer passage of the old Tokaido (also referred to as Kyu-kaido, 旧街道) between Moto-Hakone and Hakone-Yumoto. Some of the original stone pavement remains, and the best preserved section leads from Moto-Hakone to Hatajuku (75-100 minutes) via the Amasake Chaya, a tea house serving amazake (hot, sweet [rice wine](e2037_sake.html) with low or no alcohol content) and various Japanese-style snacks.

A few steps past the Amasake Chaya stands a small museum which is free to enter and features life-size reconstructions explaining the purpose of and life along the long road to Tokyo. Between Hatajuku and Hakone-Yumoto (90-120 minutes), the trail follows the road, which is neither particularly scenic nor pleasant to walk due to car traffic and the absence of a sidewalk for pedestrians.

Preserved stone paved road of the Old Tokaido between Hatajuku and Moto-Hakone

### Hakone Checkpoint

The Hakone Checkpoint is located a short walk from the Hakone-machi boat pier and bus stop. Hakone Tozan Bus operates bus line H between Hakone-Yumoto Station and Hakone-machi (40 minutes, 1210 yen, 4-5 buses per hour, covered by the [Hakone Free Pass](e2358_008.html)).

### Old Tokaido

Two Hakone Tozan [buses](e2015.html) per hour run on the bus line K along the Old Tokaido between Hakone-Yumoto and Moto-Hakone, stopping at Hatajuku (20 minutes, 460 yen from Yumoto) and the Amasake Chaya (25 minutes, 710 yen) along the way. In the early morning and in the evening, buses operate only between Hakone-Yumoto and Hatajuku. The [Hakone Free Pass](e2358_008.html) is valid on these buses.

[How to get to and around Hakone](e5206.html)