---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5158.html
title: Sendai Tanabata Matsuri 2025
description: Visitor guide for the Sendai Tanabata Festival.
keywords: sendai, tanabata, matsuri, festival, tohoku, sandai
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1883
char_count: 12631
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:07:09
---

[Tanabata](e2283.html) festivals, also known as "star festivals", are held across Japan on the 7th day of the 7th month of the year, when, according to Chinese legend, the two stars Altair and Vega cross paths. Due to differences between the [lunar calendar](e2272.html) and the solar calendar, modern tanabata festivals can take place in July or August.

The Sendai Tanabata Matsuri (仙台七夕まつり), held every year on August 6-8, is one of the largest and most famous tanabata celebrations in Japan. Together, with [Akita](e3625.html)'s [Kanto Matsuri](e3627.html) and [Aomori](e3750.html)'s [Nebuta Matsuri](e3755.html), it makes up the Tohoku Sandai Matsuri (Three Great Festivals of the [Tohoku Region](/list/e1102.html)).

While festivities take place throughout [Downtown Sendai](e5156.html), the festival's main feature are thousands of colorful streamers that decorate the city's shopping arcades, which come to resemble brightly colored forests. Each set of 3-5 meter long **streamers** is handcrafted by local shops, schools and community groups out of washi paper and bamboo. They are then hung from ten meter long bamboo poles along the arcades.

Streamers up close

In addition to the streamers, which represent the threads of a loom, there are smaller paper decorations that include **kimono** to ward off bad health and accidents; a **net** for good harvests; **cranes** for long life, health and safety; a **purse** for good business; a **trashbag** for cleanliness; and **paper strips** for good handwriting, which people often write wishes on and hang from a bamboo branch. These items are also hung from the bamboo poles or worked into the design of the streamers themselves.

A collection of food and drink vendors sell popular local specialties at the Shimin Hiroba Square in Kotodai Park. And last but not least, a [fireworks](e2267.html) display is held on the night before the festival (August 5) around Nishi Park.

Celebrations underway

The decorations are found along the Ichibancho and Chuo shopping arcades, which begin a few minutes walk from JR Sendai Station. Shimin Hiroba Square and Kotodai Park are at the end if the Ichibancho Shopping Arcade and just above the Kotodaikoen Subway Station. Jozenji Dori leads from Shimin Hiroba Square to the Hirosegawa River.

[How to get to and around Sendai](e5151.html)