---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5751.html
title: Kurashiki Canal Area (Bikan Historical Quarter)
description: Visitor guide for Kurashiki's canal area, a beautifully preserved historical district known as Bikan Historical Quarter.
keywords: kurashiki, canal, bikan, historical, quarter, storehouse, storehouses, warehouse, warehouses, canals, japan
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1994
char_count: 13412
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:31:01
---

During the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868), [Kurashiki](e5750.html) was an important regional trade hub for Japan's most important commodity, [rice](e2043.html). Large quantities of rice from the surrounding area were brought into Kurashiki and stored there in storehouses before being shipped to [Osaka](e2157.html) and [Edo](e2164.html). Because of the city's importance in the rice trade, Kurashiki was put under direct control of the [shogunate](e2128.html), and the city was even named after its many storehouses (kura).

Canals were built to allow boats and barges to navigate between the city's storehouses and the nearby port. A central section of the city's former canal system has been preserved in the Bikan Historical Quarter (倉敷美観地区, Kurashiki Bikan Chiku). The weeping willow trees that line the canal and the stone bridges that cross over the water make for a picturesque scene.

Along the canal, there are many of the original storehouses that were so central to the city's identity. Recognizable by their white walls and black tiles, the former storehouses have been converted into cafes, boutiques, souvenir shops and a number of museums:

* 

  [Ohara Museum•](e5754.html)

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (until 15:00 from December to February)  
  Closed: Mondays (unless Monday is a [national holiday](e2062.html)), New Year  
  Admission: 2000 yen  
  Typical visit duration: 45-90 minutes

  The [Ohara Museum](e5754.html) is not a converted storehouse, but was built in 1930 as the first private museum focusing in Western art in Japan. It houses an impressive collection of Western masterpieces by artists such as Picasso, El Greco, Gauguin, Modigliani, Rodin, Klee, Pollock and Kandinsky. English audio guides are available free of charge
* 

  Museum of Folkcraft

  Hours: 10:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:45)  
  Closed: Mondays (unless Monday is a [national holiday](e2062.html)), Dec 29 to Jan 1  
  Admission: 1200 yen  
  Typical visit duration: 10-20 minutes

  When the Museum of Folkcraft was built in 1948, it was the second folkcraft museum in Japan and the first of Kurashiki's storehouses to be converted into a museum. Everyday items from across Japan are displayed, including textiles, [ceramics](e2329.html), lacquerware, etc.
* 

  Toy Museum

  Hours: 10:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: January 1  
  Admission: 600 yen  
  Typical visit duration: 10-15 minutes

  The toy museum consists of a number of converted storehouse buildings. There are four main display rooms, which feature examples of old toys from all of Japan's 47 [prefectures](/list/e1002.html). One room is devoted to variations of the popular [daruma doll](e2104.html). There are also shops and a cafe.
* 

  Archaeological Museum

  Hours: 10:00 to 15:00 (entry until 14:30)  
  Closed: Mon to Thu (except [national holidays](e2062.html)), Dec 28 to Jan 5  
  Admission: 500 yen  
  Typical visit duration: 10-15 minutes

  The Archaeological Museum was opened in 1950 in a converted storehouse, and explores the early history of Japan. There are about 700 examples of [pottery](e2329.html) and other artefacts from early Japanese civilization, mainly from the region around Kurashiki.
* 

  Storehouse Shopping Street

  Varies by shop; typically 10:00 to 18:00  
  Closed: Varies by shop

  One block away from the canal, a shopping street runs parallel to the canal. Shops, cafes and restaurants, can be found along here, many housed in historic buildings, offering a quieter place to rest compared to the canal area. Many stores are helmed by young people, projecting a trendy vibe in a traditional setting.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

The canal area is a 10-15 minute walk from Kurashiki Station's south exit. A main road, Motomachi-dori, leads south from the station to the canal area, but walking through the parallel shopping arcade is more enjoyable and almost as fast.

Travelers, who would rather not walk from the station, can take a [bus](e2015.html) to the Ohara Bijutsukan bus stop (2 minutes, 170 yen), which is located just beside the [Ohara Museum](e5754.html).

[How to get to and around Kurashiki](e5753.html)