---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5954.html
title: Suganuma Village
description: Visitor guide for Suganuma, a village to see gassho-zukuri farmhouses in Gokayama.
keywords: gokayama, shirakawago, shirakawa, ogimachi, gassho, zukuri, gasshozukuri, house, houses
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1219
char_count: 8327
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:21:01
---

Suganuma (菅沼), one of the main attractions of Gokayama, is made up of two areas, Suganuma Village and the Gokayama Gassho no Sato. Pleasant and easy to explore on foot, the two areas are connected to each other by a tunnel, which also connects to the parking lot on the hill overlooking the village via an elevator.

**Suganuma Village** and nine of its gassho-zukuri farmhouses, were designated a [UNESCO World Heritage Site](e2251.html) along with [Ainokura](e5955.html) and [Ogimachi](e5951.html) in 1995. A beautiful place to see gassho-zukuri farmhouses, the ones here have been well preserved, and a few of them have become restaurants, [minshuku](e2026.html), and museums showing the daily life and the washi paper and saltpeter industries, which sustained the region.

Ingredients for gunpowder (from the left: sulfur, saltpeter, charcoal, finished gunpowder)

On the other end of the tunnel, the **Gokayama Gassho no Sato** has a number of traditional farmhouses that have been relocated here from the surrounding region in order to save them from destruction. However no one lives in these houses now; instead they are used by school groups for overnight stays and cultural activities.

* 

  Saltpeter Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 16:30 (until 16:00 from December to March)  
  Closed: December 29 to January 1  
  Admission: 400 yen (also includes Folk Museum)

  Making saltpeter, an ingredient in gunpowder, was an important regional industry during the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868). This museum has exhibits on the procedures, tools and history of the industry in Gokayama.
* 

  Folk Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 16:30 (until 16:00 from December to March)  
  Closed: December 29 to January 1  
  Admission: 400 yen (also includes Saltpeter Museum)

  This folk museum displays tools and household items used in daily life. Some of the exhibited items include tools used for farming, raising silkworms and making washi paper.
* 

  Gassho Cottages

  This collection of relocated gassho-zukuri farmhouses is now a place where school groups can stay overnight and participate in activities based on Gokayama traditional life. Although not aimed at the individual traveler, the area is open to everyone, and you are free to see the houses from the outside.

### Attractions around Suganuma

* 

  Iwase-ke House

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (until 16:00 from December to March)  
  Closed: Thursdays (except [national holidays](e2062.html))  
  Admission: 400 yen (500 yen from 2026)

  This well preserved gassho-zukuri farmhouse is the largest one of its kind in the region. The first floor has rooms which were designed to entertain visiting lords, while the spacious upper floors display tools and household items used for farming and raising silkworms.

### By bus

Suganuma is a stop along the [bus](e2015.html) route between [Shirakawago](e5951.html) and [Takaoka](e7525.html) ([see timetable](/bus/gokayama.html)). The one way ride from Shirakawago to Suganuma takes 30 minutes and costs 870 yen. From Shin-Takaoka Station, it takes about 80 minutes and costs 1200 yen.

Alternatively, some buses along the bus route between [Kanazawa](e2167.html) and Shirakawago stop at the "Gokayama Suganuma" bus stop along the way ([see timetable and fare details](/bus/shirakawago.html)); however, it is possible to board buses only in the direction of Kanazawa and get off buses only in the direction of Ogimachi, but not vice versa. Also, these buses do not serve Suganuma from December through March.

### By car

From Ogimachi, Suganuma can be reached in about 30 minutes along National Route 156. You can cut travel time by a few minutes by taking the [Tokai-Hokuriku Expressway](e2354.html) between Shirakawago and Gokayama IC (580 yen regular expressway tolls). From Gokayama IC, Suganuma is reached in about two minutes.

[How to get to and around Shirakawa-go and Gokayama](e5953.html)