---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5350.html
title: Hakodate Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Hakodate, a city on Hokkaido in Japan.
keywords: hakodate, guide, city, travel, tourism, sightseeing, tourist, visitor, information, visit
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1605
char_count: 11182
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:48:11
---

Hakodate (函館) is [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html)'s third largest city, located at the island's southern tip. Hakodate is best known for the spectacular views to be enjoyed from [Mount Hakodate](e5354.html) and its delicious, fresh seafood.

Hakodate was among the first Japanese port cities that were opened to international trade after the country's [era of isolation](e2128.html). As a result, the city has experienced notable influence from overseas, and the foreign population's [former residential district](e5351.html) and a [Western-style fort](e5352.html) are among its main tourist attractions.

[Onuma Park](e5356.html), a quasi national park with beautiful, island-dotted lakes, is located only half an hour north of Hakodate and makes a nice side trip or a stop along the journey between Hakodate and [Sapporo](e2163.html).

* [](/e/e5354.html)

  1

  Viewpoint/Tower

  [Mount Hakodate•](/e/e5354.html)

  Mountain with spectacular views of the city.

  4.3

  

  751
* [](/e/e5356.html)

  2

  Nature

  [Onuma Park•](/e/e5356.html)

  National park 20 kilometers north of Hakodate.

  3.8

  

  147
* [](/e/e5352.html)

  3

  Castle

  [Fort Goryokaku•](/e/e5352.html)

  Japan's first Western style fortress.

  3.6

  

  629
* [](/e/e5353.html)

  4

  Shopping

  [Morning Market](/e/e5353.html)

  Enjoy fresh seafood for breakfast.

  3.7

  

  610
* [](/e/e5351.html)

  5

  Historic Site

  [Motomachi](/e/e5351.html)

  Former residential area of foreign traders.

  3.6

  

  515
* [](/e/e5357.html)

  6

  Shopping

  [Red Brick Warehouses](/e/e5357.html)

  Atmospheric shopping complex in the bay area.

  3.1

  

  429

Side Trips from Hakodate

* [](/e/e5380.html)

  1

  [Matsumae](/e/e5380.html)

  The only former castle town on Hokkaido.

  3.6

  

  39

[

Hakodate Cherry Blossom Spots](/e/e5358.html)

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Hakodate](/e/e5350.html)

[Getting to and around Hakodate](/e/e5355.html)
[See access info](/e/e5355.html)