---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5204.html
title: Hakone Shrine
description: Visitor guide for Hakone Jinja, a shrine in Hakone.
keywords: hakone, shrine, jinja
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1678
char_count: 11159
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:43:34
---

Hakone Shrine's main building

Construction Notice:

Some renovation works will be carried out on the main hall and worship hall of Hakone Shrine from November 2025 until February 2026.

Hakone Shrine (箱根神社, Hakone Jinja) stands at the foot of Mount Hakone along the shores of [Lake Ashinoko](e5201.html). The [shrine](e2059.html) buildings are hidden in the dense forest, but are well advertised by its huge [torii gates](e2059.html), one standing prominently in the lake and two others over the main street of Moto-Hakone.

A path leads from the torii gate in Lake Ashinoko up a series of steps flanked by lanterns through the forest to the main building, which sits peacefully among the tall trees. The shrine is beautiful throughout the year, and is particularly breathtaking when shrouded in mist.

A second shrine, Mototsumiya ("original shrine"), stands at the summit of Komagatake, one of Mount Hakone's multiple peaks. It is accessible by the [Hakone Komagatake Ropeway](e5224.html) from Hakone-en or via hiking trails.

Hakone Shrine's lakefront torii

Hakone Shrine is a 5-10 minute walk from the Moto-Hakone boat pier, which is a 35 minute bus ride by Hakone Tozan Bus from Hakone-Yumoto Station by bus line H (1210 yen, 4-5 buses per hour, covered by the [Hakone Free Pass](e2358_008.html)).

Mototsumiya is a short walk from the top station of [Komagatake Ropeway](e5224.html), which departs from Hakone-en at the shores of [Lake Ashinoko](e5201.html). A round trip ticket costs 2200 yen. [Hakone Free Pass](e2358_008.html) holders can get a discount.

[How to get to and around Hakone](e5206.html)