---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5309.html
title: Mount Moiwa
description: Visitor guide for Mount Moiwa, a hill with great views of Sapporo.
keywords: sapporo, mount, moiwa
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1852
char_count: 12560
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:12:33
---

The night view from the summit of Mount Moiwa

Mount Moiwa (藻岩山, Moiwa-yama) is one of several small, forested mountains southwest of central [Sapporo](e2163.html). The mountain is a popular sightseeing spot that is known for the spectacular view out over the city from an observation deck at its summit. The view is especially beautiful after sunset.

The **Mount Moiwa Ropeway** climbs from the base of the mountain three quarters up the mountain to a transfer station. From there a rather unique **mini cablecar** travels the rest of the way to the upper station at the summit where there is an observation deck and restaurant with nice views out over the city. The station also houses a planetarium and theater. The ropeway and building complex at the summit were reopened in 2012 after extensive renovations.

The **Mount Moiwa Ski Resort** lies on the mountain's southeastern slope. This skier-only resort has several runs and is close to Sapporo City; however, it is approached from a different direction than the Mount Moiwa Ropeway.

The Jewel restaurant at the summit of Mount Moiwa

### By public transport

From [Susukino](e5305.html), take [Sapporo](e2163.html)'s only streetcar line to "Ropeway Iriguchi" station (25 minutes, 230 yen, frequent departures). From there, a free shuttle bus operates to the lower ropeway station (5 minutes, departs every 15 minutes). Alternatively, the Mount Moiwa Ropeway can be reached in a five minute walk from the Ropeway Iriguchi streetcar stop.

### By car

The "Kanko Highway" toll road approaches Mount Moiwa from the southwest and leads to a parking lot at the summit. It is open from mid April to mid November between 10:30 and 22:00 (entry until 21:30). The cost for a [passenger car](e2024.html) is 1200 yen (roundtrip).

[How to get to and around Sapporo](e5306.html)