---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5095.html
title: Appi Kogen Ski Resort
description: Travel guide for the Appi Kogen Ski Resort in Iwate, Japan.
keywords: appi, kogen, ski, resort, highlands, onsen, skiing, snow, snowboard
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 541
char_count: 3654
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 11:39:45
---

The Appi Kogen Ski Resort is located in the Appi Highlands (安比高原, Appi Kōgen) in [Iwate Prefecture](/list/e1204.html), about 50 kilometers north of [Morioka](e5050.html). It is one of the best [ski resorts](e2262_resort.html) in the [Tohoku Region](/list/e1102.html), offering a large variety of wide, long ski courses, including groomed and ungroomed runs and mogul terrains. The ski season lasts from early December to early May.

The resort's courses are situated along the slopes of Mount Maemori (1305 meters), at whose peak there is an observation point from where the surrounding mountain range, in particular Mount Iwate and [Mount Hachimantai](e3655.html), can be seen on clear days.

Other attractions include a terrain park for snowboarders and a family park with sleds, snow tubes and mini courses for children to enjoy the snow. At the foot of the slopes stands the resort center, where rental equipment, shops and food establishments are available. There is also a ski school where [skiing](e2262.html) and snowboarding lessons are offered.

At the base of the ski slopes stand several large resort hotels, including the [ANA Crowne Plaza Resort Appi Kogen](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/ana-crowne-plaza-appi-kogen.html?aid=355588) and the [ANA InterContinental Appi Kogen Resort](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/intercontinental-ana-appi-kogen-resort-an-ihg.html?aid=355588). Furthermore, alternative lodging options are offered by a few [pensions](e2025_pension.html) in the small town below the resort hotels.

Appi Kogen Ski Resort

A big ski resort with a variety of groomed and ungroomed runs. The longest run measures 5500 meters. Lift ticket prices are lowered during the shoulder season or if purchased online.

Season\*

**Early December to early May**  
(December 6, 2025 to May 6, 2026)

Lifts

7 lifts

Tickets

Full day
9500 yen

Half day
n/a

Nighter
4000 yen

Access

Bus/Train
50 minutes by bus from JR Morioka Station.

Car
15 kilometers by car from Matsuo Hachimantai IC.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

Appi Kogen is best reached from [Morioka](e5050.html) Station, which is about 2.5 hours north of [Tokyo](e2164.html) by the [Tohoku Shinkansen](e2018_tohoku.html) (about 15,000 yen one way, covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html) and [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html)).

### By bus from Morioka

Buses connect [Morioka](e5050.html) Station with the Appi Kogen Ski Resort hourly during the main season 1-2 hours, but there is just one bus per day during the shoulder seasons. The one way trip takes about one hour and costs 1500 yen. The fare is not covered by the JR passes.

### By train from Morioka

Appi Kogen Station stands about three kilometers away from the ski resort and is connected with [Morioka](e5050.html) by direct trains every 2-3 hours. The one way ride between Morioka and Appi Kogen takes one hour and costs 1200 yen. Because the trains partially use [non-JR tracks](e2368.html), [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) holders will have to pay a supplement of 690 yen. However, holders of a [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html) or [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html) do not need to pay the supplement. Staying guests can request a pick-up service from the station, but there is no public transportation.