---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5077.html
title: Kitakami Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Kitakami, a famous cherry blossom spot in Iwate, Japan.
keywords: kitakami, cherry, blossoms, sakura, open, air, museum, travel, sightseeing, guide, city, visitor, visit, tourism, tourist
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 426
char_count: 3032
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:46:57
---

The city of Kitakami (北上) in [Iwate Prefecture](/list/e1204.html) is famous for the more than 10,000 [cherry trees](e2011.html) planted alongside the Kitakami River in **Tenshochi Park**. The trees are usually in bloom for one to two weeks around late April and form a beautiful tunnel of cherry blossoms that earns the park a spot among the [Tohoku Region](/list/e1102.html)'s three best [cherry blossom spots](e2011_where.html) alongside [Hirosaki Castle](e3700.html) and [Kakunodate](e3600.html).

During the cherry blossom season, festival visitors stroll along the park's two kilometer long path which is lined by cherry trees on both sides and covered in a canopy of white blossoms. Food vendors and event venues are found at both ends of the path. Visitors can also enjoy the cherry blossoms from the Kitakami River by riding a sightseeing boat, which departs from the resthouse at the south end of the park (not operating in 2025 due to safety concerns).

Tenshochi Park along the Kitakami River

Just next to Tenshochi Park lies the **Michinoku Folklore Village**, an [open air museum](e2421.html) that displays 30 preserved farmhouses and other buildings from different historical periods from the [Tohoku Region](/list/e1102.html). The restored buildings are attractively arranged around the park amid forested walkways, ponds and fields. Most of them can be entered and display various household items, which offer visitors a glimpse into what traditional life was like.

Near the open air museum's entrance gate stands the Kitakami City Museum. The museum displays additional exhibits of [Buddhist](e2055.html) art, natural history and the cultural history of Kitakami City and the surrounding area.

Michinoku Folklore Village

Kitakami and [Tokyo](e2164.html) are connected by hourly trains along the [Tohoku Shinkansen](e2018_tohoku.html). The one way trip takes three hours, costs around 13,000 yen and is covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html) and [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html).

From Kitakami Station, it is a 20 minute walk to Tenshochi Park or 45 minute walk to the open air museum. The park can alternatively be reached in a five minute ferry ride across the river (not operating in 2025 due to safety concerns) during the [cherry blossom](e2011.html) season.