---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5704.html
title: Okayama Museum Guide
description: A list of some of the best museums in Okayama.
keywords: okayama, museum, guide
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2190
char_count: 14846
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:22:09
---

### Central Okayama

Central Okayama's museums are all located near [Korakuen](e5701.html) and the [castle](e5702.html) and are easily reached from the station by tram or the [Korakuen Bus](e5703.html) (see [map below](#section_get_there)).

* 

  Prefectural Museum of Art

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Mondays (or following day if Monday is a [national holiday](e2062.html)), December 28 to January 4, and irregular closures between exhibitions  
  Admission: 360 yen

  The Prefectural Museum of Art is rather large, and the building and display rooms are attractive. The collection focuses on artists with a connection to Okayama Prefecture, and the museum also features temporary exhibitions.
* 

  Hayashibara Museum of Art

  Hours: 10:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Mondays (or following day if Monday is a [national holiday](e2062.html)), [New Year holidays](e2276.html) and irregular closures between exhibitions  
  Admission: 500 yen (possible additional fee for special exhibitions)

  The museum is located in a former guesthouse of [Okayama Castle](e5702.html), and is rather small. It was founded by the Hayashibara family, the owners of a successful local business. The collection focuses on Japanese arts such as folding screens, [kimono](e2101.html), [pottery](e2329.html) and [swords](e2297.html).
* 

  Yumeji Art Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Mondays (or next day if Mon is a [holiday](e2062.html)), Dec 28 to Jan 1  
  Admission: 800 yen

  Takehisa Yumeji (1884-1934) was born in Okayama Prefecture, and the Yumeji Art Museum was built to celebrate the centenary of his birth. Yumeji developed the Art Nouveau style in Japan at the turn of the century, and the small museum displays various examples of his work, such as its use on songbooks, cards and other items.
* 

  Okayama Prefectural Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 18:00 (April to September)  
  9:30 to 17:00 (October to March)  
  Closed: Mondays (or following day if Monday is a [national holiday](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html) holidays and irregular closures between exhibitions  
  Admission: 260 yen (possible additional fee for special exhibitions)

  The Okayama Prefectural Museum outlines the history and development of the Okayama region, from [prehistory](e2131.html) to the end of the [feudal age](e2128.html). There is a focus on the regional specialties of Okayama, namely [sword](e2297.html) making and [pottery](e2329.html).
* 

  Orient Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Mondays (or following day if Monday is a [national holiday](e2062.html)), December 28 to January 4 and irregular closures between exhibitions  
  Admission: 310 yen (possible additional fee for special exhibitions)

  This medium sized museum developed out of a personal collection of historical and artistic artifacts from the Orient, including pieces from the Middle East and Ancient Persia. The museum also has frequent temporary exhibitions, during which time the permanent exhibition is not displayed.

### Bizen City

Two other interesting museums are located in Bizen City, a 40 minute train ride east of Okayama City on the JR Ako Line.

* 

  Bizen Pottery Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Mondays (or next day if Mon is a [holiday](e2062.html)), Dec 29 to Jan 3  
  Admission: typically 500-1000 yen

  Located just next to Imbe Station on the JR Ako Line, the Bizen Pottery Museum was rebuilt recently (our photo still shows the previous building). It hosts rotating exhibitions showcasing the local Bizen [pottery](e2329.html) from different eras, from as early as the [Nara Period](e2132.html) to contemporary pieces by modern artists.
* 

  Bizen Osafune Japanese Sword Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Mondays (or following day if Monday is a [national holiday](e2062.html)), December 28 to January 4, between exhibitions  
  Admission: 500 yen

  A 20 minute walk west of Kagato Station on the JR Ako Line, this museum showcases a myriad of Japanese swords. Exhibitions show the history of Japanese swords and the various stages involved in making them. The complex also contains several workshops in which visitors can view the process of creating a sword on selected days. On selected Saturdays and Sundays, visitors can also parttake in hands-on activities (advance reservations required).

[How to get to and around Okayama](e5703.html)