---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5041.html
title: Shiogama
description: Travel guide for Shiogama, a major fishing port town along the Sanriku Coast boasting Japan's highest density of sushi restaurants.
keywords: shiogama, town, port, city, sushi, restaurants, travel, guide, sightseeing, visitor
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 570
char_count: 4306
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:25:04
---

Shiogama (塩竈 or 塩釜) is a port town in [Miyagi Prefecture](/list/e1206.html) located between [Sendai](e5150.html) and [Matsushima](e5100.html). The city supports a large fishing industry, and a significant portion of Japan's tuna and swordfish catch is processed along Shiogama's waterfronts. Its vibrant fish markets, such as the publicly accessible [Shiogama Fish Market](e5043.html), supply fresh seafood to nearby [Sendai](e5150.html), [Tokyo](e2164.html) and elsewhere. Not surprisingly, Shiogama is famous for its local seafood, especially its [sushi](e2038.html), and boasts the highest number of [sushi restaurants](e2036.html) per capita in Japan.

The city derives its name ("salt furnace") from an ancient method to harvest salt by boiling seawater in large kettles. The ritual is still performed every July at [Shiogama Shrine](e5042.html), an important [shrine](e2059.html) at the center of the town. The shrine is also a popular [cherry blossom](e2011.html) spot with a large variety of [cherry tree varieties](e2011_species.html).

Shiogama is often combined with a visit to nearby [Matsushima](e5100.html), as the two cities are connected by the popular sightseeing cruises via [Matsushima Bay](e5101.html). A common route is to take the JR Senseki Line from [Sendai](e5150.html) to Shiogama, then the cruise boat to Matsushima, before returning to Sendai, or the other way around.

* [](/e/e5043.html)

  1

  Shopping

  [Shiogama Fish Market•](/e/e5043.html)

  A large fish market open to visiting tourists.

  4.2

  

  21
* [](/e/e5101.html)

  2

  Scenic Ride

  [Matsushima Bay•](/e/e5101.html)

  Matsushima Bay's famous pine clad islets.

  4.1

  

  638
* [](/e/e5042.html)

  3

  Shrine

  [Shiogama Shrine](/e/e5042.html)

  One of the region's most important shrines.

  4.2

  

  30

### How to get to Shiogama

#### From Sendai   *([how to get to Sendai](e5151.html))*

Take one of the frequent local or rapid [trains](e2016.html) along the JR Senseki Line from [Sendai](e5150.html) to Hon-Shiogama Station. The one way trip takes about 25 minutes and costs 330 yen.

#### From Matsushima   *([how to get to Matsushima](e5105.html))*

[Sightseeing cruises](e5101.html) operate between Matsushima Pier and Marine Gate Shiogama, a ten minute walk from Hon-Shiogama Station. The one way cruise cost 1500 yen and take about 50 minutes. There are hourly departures in either direction by multiple companies.

Alternatively, take the JR Senseki Line between Hon-Shiogama and Matsushima Kaigan Stations. The one way trip takes about ten minutes and costs 200 yen. There are two departures per hour.

### How to get around Shiogama

Shiogama is served by two train lines from Sendai, the JR Senseki Line and JR Tohoku Line, that run through the city on separate tracks without meeting. **Hon-Shiogama Station** on the Senseki Line is the most convenient station for tourists, within walking distance of both the shrine (10 minutes) and the cruise ferry terminal (5 minutes). **Shiogama Station** on the JR Tohoku Line, on the other hand, is neither very central nor convenient for accessing most of the city's attractions, except maybe [Shiogama Shrine](e5042.html) (15 minute walk from the station).

There is a convenient loop bus, named Shionavi, which connects the stations with all of Shiogama's main tourist spots, including the [Shiogama Fish Market](e5043.html). Buses run hourly in both directions and cost 150 yen per ride.