---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5941.html
title: Tokyo to Okuhida\: How to get to and around Okuhida
description: How to get to around Okuhida\: access from Tokyo, Osaka, Kyoto, Takayama and Matsumoto.
keywords: okuhida, access, orientation, transportation, directions, bus, takayama
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 482
char_count: 3574
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:18:26
---

From/To:

TokyoOsakaKyotoTakayamaMatsumoto

Nohi Bus and Keio Bus operate direct [highway buses](e2366.html) between [Tokyo](e2164.html) and [Takayama](e5900.html) that make a stop in Hirayu, the transportation hub of [Okuhida](e5940.html), along the way. The one way journey between Tokyo and Hirayu Onsen takes about 4.5 hours and costs between 7,500 and 9,500 yen depending on travel date and purchase method.

Take a JR [limited express](e2016.html#category) train from Tokyo to [Matsumoto](e6050.html) (6620 yen), transfer to a bus bound for [Takayama](e5900.html) and get off at Hirayu (2800 yen). The entire one way journey costs 9420 yen and takes around five hours. The train portion of the trip is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and [JR East Nagano Niigata Area Pass](e2361_nagano_niigata.html), but the bus portion is not. Seat reservations are required on both the train and bus.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

[Okuhida](e5940.html) is comprised of five [onsen](e2292.html) towns along a valley: Hirayu, Fukuji, Shin-Hirayu, Tochio and Shin-Hotaka. Hirayu Onsen, the largest of these towns and the regional transportation hub, lies along the national route that connects [Takayama](e5900.html) with [Matsumoto](e6050.html).

**Public transportation** within Okuhida is provided by [buses](e2015.html) that run from [Takayama](e5900.html) to all the hot spring towns along the valley. Buses depart hourly from Takayama and stop at Hirayu Onsen (60 minutes, 1600 yen), Fukuji Onsen (70 minutes, 1800 yen), Shin-Hirayu Onsen (75 minutes, 1850 yen) and Tochio Onsen (80 minutes, 1930 yen) before terminating at [Shin-Hotaka Ropeway](e5943.html) (90 minutes, 2200 yen) at the far end of Shin-Hotaka Onsen.

Various passes are offered to visitors for unlimited use of [buses](e2015.html) along specified routes in the [Okuhida](e5940.html) area:

* **Takayama & Shinhotaka 2-Day Open Ticket** (4,400 yen)
    
  Unlimited use of Nohi buses between [Takayama](e5900.html), Hirayu Onsen and Shin-Hotaka Onsen on two consecutive calendar days. Sold at the Takayama Bus Center and as digital ticket through [Klook](https://www.klook.com/activity/135355-takayama-shinhotaka-2-day-open-ticket/?aid=12675) or [Nohi Bus](https://ars-nouhibus.linktivity.io/home).
* **Okuhida Onsen 2-day Open Ticket** (1,800 yen)
    
  Unlimited use of Nohi buses between Hirayu Onsen and Shin-Hotaka Onsen on two consecutive calendar days. Sold at the Hirayu Bus Terminal or as a digital ticket through [Nohi Bus](https://ars-nouhibus.linktivity.io/home).

Alternatively, **rental cars** are a convenient option for exploring the Okuhida region, but there is a risk of encountering snow on the roads during the winter months. [Rental car](e2024.html) outlets can be found in [Takayama](e5900.html) and [Matsumoto](e6050.html).