---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5942.html
title: Okuhida  Hot Springs (Onsen)
description: Visitor guide for the Okuhida Hot Springs.
keywords: okuhida, hot, springs, onsen
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 858
char_count: 5866
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:49:12
---

[Okuhida](e5940.html) is famous for its [hot springs](e2292.html), and especially so for its rotemburo (outdoor baths) with views of the surrounding Northern Japan Alps. Five [onsen](e2292.html) towns have developed along Okuhida's valleys, each with its own unique character and hot spring water, as they are fed from different hot spring sources.

The towns offer a variety of baths, many of which have both segregated and mixed gender bathing, best enjoyed by staying overnight at a [ryokan](e2029.html) with hot spring baths. [Public bath houses](e2074.html) and several [ryokan](e2029.html) also open their baths to non-staying guests during daytime for typically 500 to 2000 yen. Below is an introduction of each town and a short selection of recommended baths open to the public.

### Hirayu Onsen

Hirayu is the oldest and largest of [Okuhida](e5940.html)'s onsen towns and is said to have been discovered in the 1560s by Takeda Shingen's troops as they crossed through the Okuhida region. Today the town has many [ryokan](e2029.html), ranging in size from small family run places to large complexes. Its hot spring waters are said to cure neuralgia, sensitivity to cold and skin disease. Hirayu is the regional transportation hub.

* 

  Hirayu no Mori

  Hours: 10:00 to 21:00 (private bath: 12:00 to 15:00)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Fee: 700 yen (private bath: 3000 yen for 45 minutes)

  Hirayu no Mori is a modern [public bath](e2074.html) in central Hirayu with indoor and a large number of outdoor baths, all of which are gender separated. Private baths are also available. While primarily a bath house, Hirayu no Mori also offers some lodging facilities, including cottages with private baths.
* 

  Hirayu Minzokukan

  Hours: 6:00 to 21:00 (from 8:00 during winter)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free (suggested 300 yen donation)

  The Hirayu Minzokukan is unique in that it is a museum with its own hot spring bath, called Hirayu no Yu. The museum consists of a few traditional straw roofed farm houses that display tools and daily items from the rural region. The baths are outdoor and gender separated without shower facilities.

### Shin-Hirayu Onsen

Shin-Hirayu Onsen is the second largest onsen town in Okuhida and lies on the eastern side of the Takahara River opposite Fukuji Onsen, at the base of Mount Yakedake.

* 

  Okuhida Garden Hotel Yakedake••

  Daytime Hours: 12:00 to 22:00 (entry until 21:00)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 900 yen

  This large hotel opens its baths to non-staying guests during the day. The baths are filled with water tinted yellow by a high sulfur content and include segregated indoor baths and a large, mixed-gender open-air bathing area with cave and waterfall baths. Special towels (which are provided) must be worn in the mixed-gender are.

### Shin-Hotaka Onsen

Shin-Hotaka Onsen is far back in the valley at the base of the Hotaka Mountains, which contains Japan's third highest peak. Many of the baths offer nice views of the surrounding Northern Alps.

* 

  Suimeikan Karukaya••

  Closed indefinitely

  Suimeikan Karukaya is a [ryokan](e2029.html) with a huge, mixed gender outdoor bath with panoramic views of the mountains. Hot water replenishes the bath via a waterfall. There are also three private baths available for a small fee (shorter opening hours), as well as a women's only bath. Entrance fees should be paid at the ryokan reception desk.
* 

  Yarimikan•

  Daytime Hours: 10:00 to 14:00  
  Closed: occasional irregular closures  
  Admission: 500 yen

  The Yarimikan is a [ryokan](e2029.html) which allows non staying guest to use their baths during the day. There are a number of outdoor baths (two mixed gender, and one women's only) that have views of Mount Yarimidake and the river that flows alongside the ryokan. Indoor baths and private baths are also available, but are restricted to staying guests of the ryokan.

### Fukuji Onsen

Fukuji Onsen (also sometimes written as Fukuchi Onsen), established about 40 years ago, is a relatively new [onsen](e2292.html) town. Yet this town has some of the more atmospheric, traditionally styled [ryokan](e2029.html) in Okuhida. While appearing quite old, most of the ryokan are relatively new, but are made from reclaimed materials from old farmhouses giving them a traditional, rustic feel. Some of the ryokan open up their baths to day trip visitors, and there is also a small morning market held in the town.

### Tochio Onsen

This town is comprised mainly of small [minshuku](e2026.html) that are not of much interest to day trip bathers as their baths are generally only open to their staying guests; however, the minshuku are some of the more economical places to stay when visiting the region.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

[How to get to and around Okuhida](e5941.html)