---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5412.html
title: Megijima Island
description: Travel guide for Megijima Island, a small island off the coast of Takamatsu.
keywords: megijima, megi, jima, shima, island, setouchi, seto, uchi, art
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1896
char_count: 12605
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:09:17
---

Megijima (女木島) is a small island a short [ferry](e2355.html) ride from the port of [Takamatsu](e5400.html), less than four kilometers long and one kilometer wide. The island is home to around 150 people and besides two small villages and some fields consists mostly of forested mountains.

Megijima is associated with Onigashima, the **Ogre Island** from the popular [Momotaro legend](e5705.html) in which a small boy visited the island in order to fight its resident ogres. Indeed, a cave is found near Megijima's highest peak, which is said to have once served as the ogres' fortress. Visitors to the cave will find a series of interconnected chambers, some of which display large cartoon ogre statues depicting scenes from the Momotaro story.

A few steps from the cave is a mountaintop park with an observation deck, offering a 360 degree view of the [Seto Inland Sea](e5445.html) and the surrounding islands. Hundreds of cherry trees turn the park into a pleasant [cherry blossom](e2011.html) spot each spring, usually around early April.

Ogre Cave

On the mountain peak opposite the observation deck stands a large **statue of Nichiren**, the founder of the Nichiren sect of Japanese [Buddhism](e2055.html). It is possible to walk up to the statue along a paved trail.

Megijima's atmospheric **village** of old wooden houses and narrow lanes is located around the ferry terminal and is protected towards the sea by high stone walls. During the summer months, the island attracts urbanites with its [sand beach](e2461.html), which is located not far from the ferry port and is lined by multiple [minshuku](e2026.html) lodgings.

Megijima's sand beach

The **ferry terminal** is one of the more modern buildings on the island and provides tourists with an information desk, [bicycle](e2210.html) rentals and snacks. The terminal also houses a small exhibition space about the ogres from the Momotaro story.

Megijima is one of the venues of the [Setouchi Triennale](e5410.html) art festival and features several artwork-turned homes and a few other art pieces on permanent display. Additional artworks are on display during the art festivals. Most of the art pieces are closed on weekdays and during winter outside of the art festival.

Stone walls protecting the village

### Getting to Megijima Island

A ferry operates every two hours between [Takamatsu Port](e5406.html), Megijima and [Ogijima](e5413.html). The one way ride between Takamatsu and Megijima takes 20 minutes and costs 370 yen.

[How to get to and around Takamatsu](e5404.html)

### Getting around Megijima Island

Although Megijima is small, some people will find it just a little bit too large and its mountain a little bit too high to be explored on foot. Walking up the mountain takes about 30-45 minutes. For these people, a [bus](e2015.html) connects the ferry terminal and the cave in about ten minutes and for 500 yen one way or 800 yen for a round trip. Bus departures are timed to the ferry arrivals, but note that the bus does not operate everyday during the off-seasons.

Alternatively, [bicycles](e2210.html) are an attractive way to get around the island. They can be rented from the ferry port for 600 yen (regular) or 2000 yen (electric). An electric assist bike is recommended for accessing the cave as the road up the mountain is rather steep.