---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5853.html
title: Omori Town
description: Visitor guide for Omori Town in Iwami Ginzan.
keywords: omori, town, iwami, ginzan, residence, old, silver, mine
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 616
char_count: 4351
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:18:22
---

Omori Town (大森, Ōmori) is a one and a half kilometer long stretch of houses, shops, [temples](e2058.html) and [shrines](e2059.html) that runs along the river valley to the north of the [mines](e5852.html). It used to house magistrates, merchants and craftsmen who benefited from the nearby mines.

Today, many historical sites remain interspersed among the homes of the town's current residents, including the residences of some of the families that prospered here. A couple of these well-preserved homes are now open as museums for the public to explore. Museums and religious sites aside, the town's narrow streets and charming old buildings give Omori an atmosphere reminiscent of centuries past, making it a great place to explore.

* 

  Former Magistrate's Office (Iwami Ginzan Museum)

  Hours: 9:30 to 17:00   
  Closed: Tuesday (or next day if Tue is a [holiday](e2062.html)), Dec 29 to Jan 4  
  Admission: 600 yen  
  Typical visit duration: 20 minutes

  Due to its exceptional economic value, the [shogunate](e2059.html) maintained direct control over Iwami's [silver mines](e5852.html), and this building served as the office for the shogun's local representative. Today, the complex has been converted into a museum with exhibits related to the history of the mine.
* 

  Kigami Shrine

  Hours: Always open  
  Admission: Free  
  Typical visit duration: 5-10 minutes

  Located at the north end of the town, this serene [shrine](e2059.html) has a dragon painting on its ceiling that echoes like the roar of the dragon when you clap your hands under it.
* 

  Kumagai Residence

  Hours: 9:30 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Tuesday (or next day if Tue is a [holiday](e2062.html)), Dec 29 to Jan 3  
  Admission: 600 yen  
  Typical visit duration: 20 minutes

  The largest and most spectacular of the town's old homes, this used to be the residence of a leading merchant and town official and his family. Spacious, ornate and beautifully restored, today it stands as fine example of a period household.
* 

  Kawashima Residence

  Hours: 9:00 to 16:30   
  Closed: Tuesdays, [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission: 300 yen  
  Typical visit duration: 20 minutes

  The only of the town's former [samurai](e2128.html) homes open to the public, this complex has many elements typical to the class and period including its old front gate and rear-situated toilets. The house provides an insight into the living conditions of high-ranking samurai.
* 

  Gohyaku Rakan

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00   
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 500 yen  
  Typical visit duration: 10 minutes

  Here, 500 stone statues of [Buddha](e2055.html)'s disciples are housed in a series of man-made caves. Their postures and facial expressions run the entire gamut of emotions and are very interesting to see.

The central [bus](e2015.html) stop, Omori Daikansho (Omori Former Government Office), is served by all buses, providing connections along Omori Town and to the parking lot at the World Heritage Center (1-3 buses per hour), to Oda-shi Station (hourly), Nima Station (every 3 hours) and Hiroshima (2 buses per day).

Omori Town can also be reached on foot from the parking lot: It takes about 20-30 minutes to walk to the town's southern end around the Gohyaku Rakan via a nature trail shortcut and an additional 15-20 minutes (without stops) to reach the town's northern end around the Former Government Office.

[How to get to and around Iwami Ginzan](e5851.html)