---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5502.html
title: Dogo Onsen
description: Visitor guide for Dogo Onsen, a famous hot spring in Matsuyama which is one of the oldest in Japan.
keywords: dogo, onsen, spa, hot, springs, spring, matsuyama
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2233
char_count: 14637
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:48:49
---

Dogo Onsen Honkan

Dogo Onsen (道後温泉, Dōgo Onsen) is one of Japan's oldest and most famous [hot springs](e2292.html), located to the east of central [Matsuyama](e5500.html). The area is popular with tourists for its beautiful bath house and many [ryokan](e2029.html). Dogo Onsen has also been a frequent destination for Japan's most prestigious guests, the [Imperial Family](e2135.html).

The main attraction in Dogo Onsen is the [Dogo Onsen Honkan](e5507.html), a wooden [public bathhouse](e2074.html), dating from [1894](e2130.html). The interior of the Honkan is a maze of stairways, passages and rooms, all of which bustle with bathers and staff. It is said to have served as inspiration for Miyazaki's popular animated film "Spirited Away".

The Dogo Onsen area also features many other attractions such as a shopping arcade, the secondary bath house [Asuka no Yu](e5509.html), interesting [temples](e2058.html) and [shrines](e2059.html), Dogo Park and a museum about Masaoka Shiki, one of [Matsuyama](e5500.html)'s most celebrated figures. [Ryokan](e2029.html) guests often walk around the streets in their [yukata](e2103.html), giving the onsen town a very pleasant atmosphere.

* 

  [Dogo Onsen Honkan](e5507.html)

  Hours: 6:00 to 23:00 (entry until 22:30)  
  Admission: from 700 yen

  The [Honkan](e5507.html) has two indoor baths: Kami no Yu is the larger public bath and Tama no Yu is the smaller, more noble and less crowded bath. Tatami rooms of various sizes for relaxation are located in the upper floors. Different ticket options provide visitors with varying levels of access to the Honkan's facilities.
* 

  [Asuka no Yu](e5509.html)

  Hours: 6:00 to 23:00 (entry until 22:30)  
  Admission: from 610 yen

  Located about 100 meters away from the [Honkan](e5507.html) stands Dogo Onsen's newest [bath house](e2074.html), [Asuka no Yu](e5509.html). Opened in 2017, it is a tastefully designed, modern version of the Honkan, offering similar visiting plans from simply using the bath to the additional use of private rooms and a private bath at additional costs. In between is the pleasant plan that allows visitors to relax and drink tea in a large tatami room on the second floor after taking a bath.
* 

  Tsubaki no Yu

  Hours: 6:30 to 23:00 (entry until 22:30)  
  Admission: 450 yen

  Tsubaki no Yu ("Camellia Bath") is another [public bath house](e2074.html) that stands just next to [Asuka no Yu](e5509.html). Dating from the 1980s, it offers simple, gender-separated indoor baths and the same [hot spring](e2292.html) water as the Honkan.
* 

  Dogo Onsen Station

  Built in 1895, Dogo Onsen Station is a nice representation of Meiji Period [architecture](e2111.html). It serves as the terminal station to three tram lines. A "Botchan" steam locomotive is often exhibited in front of it.
* 

  Botchan Karakuri Clock

  Clock chimes every 30-60 minutes from 8:00 to 22:00  
  Foot bath can be used from 6:00 to 23:00

  The Botchan Karakuri Clock near the station plays music on the hour whilst figurines of characters from the famous novel "Botchan" come to life. Next to the clock stands a foot bath free for all to enjoy.
* 

  Shiki Memorial Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 18:00 (until 17:00 from November to April)  
  Admission ends 30 minutes before closing  
  Admission: 500 yen  
  Closed: Most Tuesdays

  The Shiki Memorial Museum displays information on one of [Matsuyama](e5500.html)'s most well-known sons, Masaoka Shiki, who introduced modern haiku poetry. Shiki's works of poems and paintings, as well as materials documenting his life are presented.
* 

  Dogo Park

  Dogo Park occupies the former grounds of a castle. Today, only the moats and barely noticeable castle ruins remain, and Dogo Park is better known as a great [cherry blossom spot](e5506.html) in spring. The spacious park offers wide lawns which are ideal for picnics.
* 

  [Ishiteji Temple](e5503.html)

  Hours: Always open  
  Admission: Free

  Ishiteji is [Matsuyama](e5500.html)'s most famous [temple](e2058.html), located a short bus ride or 20 minute walk from central Dogo Onsen. On its spacious grounds stand several temple buildings, a three-storied pagoda and a temple gate that is a designated national treasure. Ishiteji also has a cave that leads to a somewhat bizarre secondary temple complex.
* 

  Isaniwa Shrine

  Hours: 5:00 to 19:00 (6:00 to 18:00 during winter)  
  Admission: Free

  Isaniwa Shrine is located about 200 meters east of Dogo Onsen Station. A tall flight of stairs lead to the [shrine](e2059.html), which is constructed of the traditional Hachiman [architectural style](e2111.html). In this style, the shrine consists of two halls whose roofs are connected with each other, essentially forming a single building. Sheltered corridors and vermillion pillars and walls are also a feature of this style.

Dogo Onsen is the terminus of three tram lines. It can be reached from JR Matsuyama Station by tram line 5 in 20 minutes or from Matsuyama-shi Station by tram line 3 in 15 minutes.

[How to get to and around Matsuyama](e5504.html)