---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5908.html
title: Tokyo to Takayama\: How to get to and around Takayama
description: How to get to and around Takayama.
keywords: takayama, access, orientation, transportation, directions, getting there, train, bus
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2191
char_count: 14718
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:31:59
---

From/To:

TokyoOsakaKyotoNagoyaShirakawa-goKanazawaToyamaMatsumotoOkuhidaGujoKiso ValleyFuji Five Lakes

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

Take the [JR Tokaido Shinkansen](e2018_tokaido.html) from [Tokyo](e2164.html) to [Nagoya](e2155.html) (100-120 minutes, several trains per hour) and transfer to the JR Hida limited express train to [Takayama](e5900.html) (140 minutes, one train per hour). The entire one way journey takes about 4.5 hours and costs around 16,000 yen. It is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) if using a [Hikari](e2018_tokaido.html) train between Tokyo and Nagoya, but a supplement fee is required if using a faster Nozomi train.

[Book Now](/rail.html?origin=Tokyo&destination=Takayama)

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

Take the [JR Hokuriku Shinkansen](e2018_nagano.html) from [Tokyo](e2164.html) to [Toyama](e7500.html) and transfer to the JR Hida limited express train to [Takayama](e5900.html) (90 minutes). There are only two or three good connections per day that take about four hours one way; otherwise, the journey takes around five hours. The one way ride costs around 16,000 yen and is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html).

This slower but more direct route through the [Northern Alps](e6043.html) leads via [Matsumoto](e6050.html):
  
1) [How to get from Tokyo to Matsumoto](e6053.html)
  
2) [How to get from Matsumoto to Takayama](e5908.html?aFROM=5900_6050)

There are several daytime [highway bus](e2366.html) round trips per day between [Tokyo](e2164.html) ([Busta Shinjuku](e3011.html)) and [Takayama](e5900.html) operated by Keio and Nohi Bus. The one way trip takes 5.5 hours and costs 8000 yen. During some periods of the year, there is also an overnight bus. Online reservations can be made through [Willer](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/shinjuku/gifu/takayama/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184).

[Book Now](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/shinjuku/gifu/takayama/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184)

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

JR Takayama Station and the adjacent Takayama Hida Bus Center are located about a ten minute walk from Takayama's [old town](e5903.html) on the opposite side of Miyagawa River.

Most of Takayama's attractions are within easy walking distance in the city center, except for the [Hida no Sato](e5901.html) open air museum and the [Matsuri no Mori](e5910.html) festival museum, which can be accessed in longer walks or 10-15 minute bus rides from Takayama Station.

The **Sarubobo Bus** is a bus for tourists that runs every 30 minutes between the station and [Hida no Sato](e5901.html), with every second service continuing to the [Matsuri no Mori](e5910.html). Furthermore, the **Machinami Bus** and the two **Takumi Bus** lines run from Takayama Station around the town center. The fare is 100 yen per ride on any of these buses or 500 yen for a 1-day pass, which provides unlimited rides on all four lines on one calendar day.

Guided tours on rickshaws (jinrikisha) are available in the [old town](e5903.html). A 30 minute tour for two persons costs 7000 yen. Shorter and longer courses for up to three persons are also available.