---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5805.html
title: Tokyo to Matsue\: How to get to and around Matsue
description: How to get to and around Matsue and Izumo.
keywords: matsue, itsumo, access, how, to get, orientation, transportation, directions, get there, train, bus, air, plane
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1928
char_count: 12718
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:30:02
---

From/To:

TokyoOsakaKyotoOkayamaIwami GinzanIzumo

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

Take the [JR Tokaido/Sanyo Shinkansen](e2018_tokaido.html) from [Tokyo](e2164.html) to [Okayama](e5700.html) (200 minutes by Nozomi, 240 minutes by Hikari, multiple trains per hour) and transfer to a JR Yakumo limited express train to [Matsue](e5800.html) (2.5 hours, one train per hour) or [Izumo](e5830.html) (3 hours, one train per hour). The one way fare is around 21,000 yen. Seat reservations are mandatory on Yakumo limited express trains.

The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) fully covers the journey if [Hikari](e2018_tokaido.html) trains are used between Tokyo and Okayama, but a supplement fee is required on the faster [Nozomi](e2018_tokaido.html) trains.

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

The "Sunrise Izumo" [night train](e2356.html) operates daily between [Tokyo](e2164.html), [Matsue](e5800.html) and [Izumo](e5830.html). One way fares including berth fee, start around 22,000 yen.

[Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) holders have to pay around 10,000 yen additionally for using a berth, except when using so called "nobi nobi" compartments, which can be used for free with the pass. Nobi nobi compartments are small spaces of carpeted floor to lie down. They are popular and often book out in advance.

[JAL](e2365.html) operates multiple flights per day between Tokyo's [Haneda Airport](e2430.html) and Izumo Airport (flight time 90 minutes). The regular one way fare is about 39,000 yen, but by using a [discount offer](e2364.html), you can usually fly for around 15,000 to 24,000 yen. Izumo Airport is a 30 minute bus ride from Matsue Station (1050 yen) and Izumoshi Station (720 yen).

ANA operates multiple [flights](e2365.html) per day between [Tokyo](e2164.html) and Yonago Airport. Flight time is 75 minutes. The regular one way fare is about 37,000 yen; however, [discount tickets](e2364.html) are usually available for between 15,000 to 24,000 yen. Yonago Airport is a 45 minute bus ride from Matsue Station (1000 yen).

Airfares from Izumo to Haneda over the next 30 days

December 23, 2025 - January 21, 2026

| Airline | Lowest fare | Average lowest fare |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [JAL](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=IZO&destination=HND&outboundDate=2026-01-19&airlines=JL) | [13,100 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=IZO&destination=HND&outboundDate=2026-01-19&airlines=JL) | [20,905 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=IZO&destination=HND&outboundDate=2026-01-19&airlines=JL) |

[Book Now](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&locale=en-GB&origin=IZO&destination=HND&outboundDate=2026-01-13)

[Matsue](e5800.html) and [Izumo](e5830.html) are connected with [Tokyo](e2164.html) by multiple [night buses](e2366.html). The one way ride takes around 12 hours and costs between 5,000 and 16,000 yen depending on the company and date of travel. Online reservations can be made through [Willer](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/shimane/matsue/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184).

[Book Now](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/shimane/matsue/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184)

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

[Matsue](e5800.html) is served by two railway companies: Japan Railways (JR) and Ichibata Railway. **JR Matsue Station** is a regional transportation hub, located two kilometers south of [Matsue Castle](e5801.html), while Ichibata Railway connects Matsue with neighboring [Izumo](e5830.html) and [Izumo Taisha](e5804.html) from its terminal station, **Matsue Shinjiko Onsen Station**, one kilometer west of the castle.

Transportation within the city is provided by city buses and Ichibata Bus. Convenient for tourists is the **Lakeline** loop [bus](e2015.html), which connects the two railway stations with all of the city's major tourist sights. Buses operate every 20 minutes. A single ride costs 210 yen, while a one-day pass is available for 520 yen.

Good walkers can explore the city's main sights entirely on foot. It takes about 30 minutes to walk from JR Matsue Station to the [castle](e5801.html) or about 15 minutes from Shinjiko Onsen Station.

The closest [airports](e2365.html) to Matsue are Izumo Airport (35 minutes, 1050 yen one way by bus from Matsue Station), which is mainly served by JAL, and Yonago Airport (45 minutes, 1000 yen one way from Matsue Station), which is mainly served by ANA.