---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5877.html
title: Tsuwano Old Town
description: Visitor guide for Tsuwano's old town, which maintains an atmosphere reminiscent of past centuries
keywords: tsuwano, old , town, samurai, tonomachi
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 503
char_count: 3665
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:07:44
---

Tonomachi District

[Tsuwano](e5875.html) is one of several towns across Japan nicknamed "Small Kyoto". The reason for the comparison is Tsuwano's old town which features several preserved historic buildings and retains an atmosphere reminiscent of past centuries.

The highlight is the **Tonomachi district** where one street block of the former [samurai district](e2127.html) is particularly nicely preserved with earthen walls, historic buildings and a water canal filled with carps.

The adjacent former merchant district, which lies between Tsuwano Station and the Tonomachi District, is not quite as meticulously groomed and preserved as the Tonomachi district, but it, too, contains quite a few old fashioned buildings and facades, including some [sake](e2037_sake.html) shops and a few museums of interest.

* 

  Hanko Yorokan

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 100 yen  
  Typical visit duration: 20 minutes

  Hanko Yorokan was constructed in 1786 as the local clan's school. Subjects taught included [Confucianism](e2300.html), military science, archery, horse riding and weapon techniques. Today, part of the building is open to public as a folk museum which contains exhibits relating to [Tsuwano](e5875.html) and its people.
* 

  Tsuwano Catholic Church

  Hours: 8:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free  
  Typical visit duration: 10 minutes

  This church was built in 1931 by a Catholic priest from Germany. It is quite unique for featuring [tatami mats](e2007.html) instead of pews. Next to the church stands a small museum with exhibits related to the story of the [Christians who were persecuted](e5880.html) in [Tsuwano](e5875.html) during the early [Meiji Period](e2130.html). English information is not provided.
* 

  Morijuku Art Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (Mar to Nov), 9:30 to 16:30 (Dec to Feb)  
  Closed: Monday to Thursday (except [national holidays](e2062.html)), Dec 29 to Jan 1  
  Admission: Free  
  Typical visit duration: 30 minutes

  This approximately 150 year old building is the former residence of the local town head, renovated and opened as an art museum. Visitors can explore the historic house and view its interesting interior design. A section of the house is designated as art space, exhibiting Western style paintings by two local artists.
* 

  Anno Mitsumasa Art Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:45)  
  Closed: Thursdays (except [national holidays](e2062.html)), December 29-31  
  Admission: 800 yen  
  Typical visit duration: 30 minutes

  This museum across the street from the station is dedicated to the local illustrator Anno Mitsumasa, who created picture books and children's books. The museum displays rotating exhibitions of Anno's works and features a library of his books and a classroom with nostalgic interior decor from the [Showa Period](e2129.html).

The old town lies just southeast of Tsuwano Station. The Tonomachi district can be reached from the station in a ten minute walk.

[How to get to and around Tsuwano](e5876.html)