---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5318.html
title: Sapporo Teine Ski Resort
description: Visitor guide for the Sapporo Teine Ski Resort just outside central Sapporo City.
keywords: sapporo, teine, ski, resort, snow, snowboard
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1975
char_count: 13266
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:04:45
---

Sapporo Teine (サッポロテイネ) is the largest of several medium sized ski resorts on the outskirts of [Sapporo](e2163.html). Just 40 minutes outside of the city center, the resort features a variety of ski trails from wide, gently sloping hills to long and fast advanced courses which include two runs used for some ski events during the [1972 Sapporo Winter Olympics](e2260.html). The Olympic Torch still stands above the resort as a monument overlooking Sapporo and the Sea of Japan below.

Sapporo Teine's good selection of trails are spread out over two zones and connected by a gondola and a six kilometer long trail. The upper **Highland Zone** reaches 1000 meters above sea level and features medium to advanced courses, off trail runs, and a snow park with jumps, boxes and rails. The lower **Olympia Zone** has wider, less steep trails suitable for beginners, as well as a family park offering sledding and tubing.

Sapporo City seen down below the slopes

Sapporo Teine Ski Resort

Sapporo Teine is a medium sized ski resort within easy access from central Sapporo City. The Highland Zone usually opens a few days before the Olympia Zone and remains open on weekends and national holidays into early May. Lift tickets cost less outside of the peak season and if purchased online.

Season\*

**Late November to early May**  
(November 22, 2025 to May 6, 2026)

Lifts

10 lifts

Tickets

Full day
9000 yen

Half day
6900 yen

Nighter
3800 yen

Access

Bus/Train
About 45 minutes by train and bus via JR Teine Station.

Car
About 40 minutes from central Sapporo via Teine IC.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

### By train

Take one of the frequent JR trains between Sapporo and Teine stations (10-15 minutes, 360 yen one way). At Teine Station change to a JR bus bound for Teine Highland and get off at the ski resort (15 minutes to the Olympia Zone or 30 minutes to the Highland Zone). Buses depart from the station's south exit in the mornings and from the ski resort in the afternoons and cost 1000 yen one way. The entire trip is covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html).

### By bus

There are direct ski buses between selected hotels in central Sapporo and Teine Ski Resort from early December to late March. The trip takes 50-100 minutes depending on the boarding location, and a round trip ticket costs 10,500 yen and includes an 7-hour lift ticket. Advance reservations are required.

[How to get to and around Sapporo](e5306.html)