---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5706.html
title: Best cherry blossom spots in Okayama (Okayama Hanami Spots)
description: A list of popular hanami (cherry blossom viewing) spots in Okayama.
keywords: okayama, sakura, cherry, blossom, blossoms, hanami, spot, spots
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1830
char_count: 12220
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:04:10
---

Below is a list of [Okayama](e5700.html)'s most popular spots for cherry blossom viewing ([hanami](e2011.html)), including the typical timing for best viewing in the average year and japan-guide.com ratings. See also our nationwide list of [famous cherry blossom spots](e2011_where.html).

* 

  Handayama Botanical Garden••

  Early April

  15 minute walk from JR Hokaiin Station  
  Hours: 9:00 to 16:30 (until 21:00 during sakura festival)  
  Closed: Tuesdays (no closures during sakura festival; open on April 1 and 8, 2025)  
  Admission: 310 yen  
  2025 sakura festival with illuminations: 4/2 to 4/11, until 21:00 (entry until 20:00).

  With its 1000 cherry trees, this botanical garden becomes a very attractive [hanami](e2011.html) spot during the blooming season. Thanks to its location along a steep hillside, the garden features the sight of the cherry blossoms in combination with views over the city. There are lawned areas for picnics.
* 

  Korakuen Garden and Okayama Castle•

  Early April

  See pages on [Korakuen](e5701.html) and [Okayama Castle](e5702.html) for access and hours

  [Korakuen](e5701.html) features about 300 cherry trees in an orchard and spread across the gardens, while the neighboring [castle](e5702.html) grounds are decorated by another 200 trees. Additionally, there are countless cherry tress along the river that flows northeast around Korakuen along what is known as the "Asahi River Cherry Road" (Asahigawa Sakura Michi).
* 

  Takebenomori Park•

  Early to mid April

  45-60 minute car ride north of central Okayama

  Takebenomori Park is a spacious park in the hills north of [Okayama](e5700.html) with about 15,000 spring flowering trees of one hundred different varieties, including many [weeping cherry trees](e2011_species.html). Lawned areas with views into the hills and wooden platforms for picnics provide a wonderful environment for hanami activities.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

[How to get to and around Okayama](e5703.html)