---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5206.html
title: Tokyo to Hakone\: How to get to and around Hakone
description: Access, orientation and transportation in Hakone.
keywords: hakone, orientation, transportation, access
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2090
char_count: 14257
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:44:13
---

From/To:

TokyoOsakaKyotoFuji Five Lakes

Odakyu Railway operates between [Tokyo](e2164.html) (Odakyu Shinjuku Station) and [Hakone](e5200.html) (Hakone-Yumoto Station). The one way journey by the "Romance Car" limited express takes about 85 minutes and costs 2470 yen (or 2420 yen if using an [e-ticket](https://www.web-odakyu.com/e-romancecar/?language=en)). By slower [express](e2016.html#category) trains, the journey takes about two hours, requires one transfer at Odawara, but costs only 1270 yen.

Odakyu also offers the [Hakone Free Pass](e2358_008.html), which includes the round trip from Tokyo to Hakone and unlimited use of selected trains, cablecars, ropeways, boats and buses in the [Hakone](e5200.html) area.

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)(covered only as far Odawara Station)

With [JR](e2019.html) trains you can only get as far as Odawara, from where you will have to use non-JR trains or buses into the [Hakone](e5200.html) area. The above mentioned [Hakone Free Pass](e2358_008.html) is also available for use from Odawara Station.

By [JR Tokaido Shinkansen](e2018_tokaido.html) you can access Odawara in about half an hour from Tokyo or Shinagawa Station (about 3500 yen one way, fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), but not covered by the [JR Tokyo Wide Area Pass](e2361_06.html), [JR East Nagano Niigata Area Pass](e2361_nagano_niigata.html), [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html) and [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html)). Note that only [Kodama](e2018_tokaido.html) trains and selected [Hikari](e2018_tokaido.html) trains stop at Odawara Station.

Alternatively, you can access Odawara from [Tokyo](e2164.html) in about 70-90 minutes by local or rapid trains on the JR Tokaido Main Line (stopping at Tokyo, Shimbashi and Shinagawa Stations) or the [JR Shonan Shinjuku Line](e2374.html) (stopping at Ikebukuro, Shinjuku and Shibuya Stations) for about 1500 yen one way. These trains are covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), [JR Tokyo Wide Pass](e2361_06.html), [JR East Nagano Niigata Area Pass](e2361_nagano_niigata.html), [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html) and [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html).

Direct [highway buses](e2366.html) operate every 30-60 minutes between [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s Shinjuku Station and the [Lake Ashi](e5201.html) area in [Hakone](e5200.html) (among other places the buses stop at Togendai and the Hakone Prince Hotel). The one way journey costs about 2200 yen and under good traffic conditions takes a little over two hours. Online reservations can be made via [Japan Bus Online](https://japanbusonline.com/en/CourseSearch/11300880001?afcd=MDI=).

The same company also operates less frequent direct buses between [Haneda Airport](e2430.html) and [Hakone](e5200.html), which stop at [Yokohama Station](e2156.html) along the way. The one way journey costs about 2500 yen and under good traffic conditions takes about 2.5 hours.

[Book Now](https://japanbusonline.com/en/CourseSearch/11300880001?afcd=MDI= )

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

The municipality of [Hakone](e5200.html) covers a mountainous region with several small towns, among which Moto-Hakone and Hakone-machi at the shores of [Lake Ashi](e5201.html) and the [hot spring](e2292.html) town of Hakone-Yumoto down in the valley, are the region's main transportation hubs.

An efficient network of [buses](e2015.html), [trains](e2019.html), cablecars, ropeways and sightseeing boats, as well as some attractive, easy-to-use passes (see [below](#section_passes)) make Hakone a great place to explore by public transportation. A popular way of seeing [Hakone](e5200.html) is by circling the region by five different means of transportation, also known as the [Hakone Round Course](e5210.html).

A variety of easy-to-use passes make access to and transportation around Hakone easy:

* **Hakone Free Pass** (from 6,000 yen)
    
  The [Hakone Free Pass](e2358_008.html) provides two or three days of unlimited use of all Odakyu affiliated trains, buses, boats, cablecars and ropeways in the Hakone area. It optionally, also includes a round trip between [Tokyo](e2164.html) and Hakone.
* **Fuji Hakone Pass** (11,100 yen)
    
  The [Fuji Hakone Pass](e2358_014.html) covers not only transportation around Hakone, but also transportation to and around the [Fuji Five Lake](e6900.html) region at the northern base of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html) on three days. It also includes a round trip between Tokyo and Hakone.
* **Hakone Kamakura Pass** (8,520 yen)
    
  The [Hakone Kamakura Pass](e2361_hakone_kamakura.html) provides three days of unlimited use of trains on the entire Odakyu rail network, transportation around Hakone, as well as access to [Kamakura](e2166.html).