---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5477.html
title: Chichu Art Museum
description: Visitor guide for the Chichu Art Museum on Naoshima.
keywords: naoshima, chichu, museum, art
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 465
char_count: 3240
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:19:28
---

The Chichu Art Museum (地中美術館, Chichū Bijutsukan) is a unique [contemporary art](e2115.html) museum built into a hillside overlooking the southern coast of [Naoshima](e5475.html). The museum building, designed by [Ando Tadao](e2111_architects.html) and itself a work of art, is mostly located underground and solely utilizes natural light to illuminate the artwork. This creates a viewing experience that is heavily influenced by the surrounding natural environment.

The museum has been built around a rather small collection of art. The first gallery displays large murals from Claude Monet's "Water Lilies" series. This is followed by a few works by James Turrell, who uses light as a medium. They include the "Open Sky" room from his "Skyspaces" series which has sister exhibits around the world including the [21st Century Museum](e4209.html) in [Kanazawa](e2167.html). Finally, the deepest part of the Chichu Museum houses the "Time/Timeless/No Time" installation by Walter De Maria.

For a pleasant experience, visitor numbers to the museum are limited. To avoid unpleasant surprises, it is strongly recommended to make reservations for a specific date and time slot through the official [website](https://www.e-tix.jp/chichu/en/) in advance. Note that bags and cameras are not allowed in the museum and must be stowed in coin lockers before entering.

Chichu Garden lining the approach to the museum

There are 1-3 [buses](e2015.html) per hour from Miyanoura Ferry Terminal via Honmura to the Tsutsujiso bus stop at the east gate of the [Benesse House](e5478.html) (10 minutes, 100 yen), from where it is possible to walk (30 minutes) or take a free shuttle bus to the Chichu Art Museum (10 minutes). Alternatively, the museum is about a two kilometer [bicycle](e2210.html) ride (10 minutes) or walk (30-40 minutes) from the Miyanoura ferry terminal.

From the Chichu Art Museum it is just a few minutes on the free shuttle bus to either the [Lee Ufan Museum](e5482.html) or the [Benesse House](e5478.html). It is also possible to walk between the museums (5 and 15 minutes respectively).

[How to get to and around Naoshima](e5476.html)