---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5900.html
title: Takayama Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for the city of Takayama, Japan.
keywords: takayama, guide, travel, tourism, city, sightseeing, tourist, visitor, information, visit
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2007
char_count: 13974
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 11:39:37
---

Takayama (高山) is a city in the mountainous Hida region of [Gifu Prefecture](/list/e1220.html). To differentiate it from other places named Takayama, the city is also commonly referred to as Hida-Takayama. Takayama retains a traditional touch like few other Japanese cities, especially in its beautifully preserved [old town](e5903.html). It ranks as a prime candidate among travelers wishing to add a rural element into their [itineraries](e2400.html).

Takayama gained importance as a source of high-quality timber and highly skilled carpenters during the [feudal ages](e2128.html). For these important resources, the city was put under direct control of the shogun and enjoyed quite a bit of prosperity considering its remote mountain location. The [Takayama Festival](e5909.html), held in spring and autumn, is considered one of Japan's best [festivals](e2063.html).

* [](/e/e5909.html)

  1

  Festival

  [Takayama Festival••](/e/e5909.html)

  Held on two days in spring and autumn.

  4.5

  

  212
* [](/e/e5903.html)

  2

  Historic Site

  [Old Town••](/e/e5903.html)

  Beautifully preserved old town.

  4.2

  

  1,140
* [](/e/e5901.html)

  3

  Museum

  [Hida Folk Village••](/e/e5901.html)

  Wonderful open air museum.

  4.2

  

  724
* [](/e/e5902.html)

  4

  Historic Site

  [Takayama Jinya•](/e/e5902.html)

  The former local government office.

  3.6

  

  492
* [](/e/e5910.html)

  5

  Museum

  [Matsuri no Mori](/e/e5910.html)

  Impressive museum about the Takayama Matsuri.

  4.1

  

  64
* [](/e/e5906.html)

  6

  Hiking

  [Higashiyama Walk](/e/e5906.html)

  Passing temples and the former castle site.

  3.8

  

  462
* [](/e/e5905.html)

  7

  Museum

  [Yatai Kaikan](/e/e5905.html)

  Festival floats exhibition hall.

  3.5

  

  239
* [](/e/e5907.html)

  8

  Shopping

  [Morning Markets](/e/e5907.html)

  Held daily in two separate locations.

  3.3

  

  677

Side Trips from Takayama

* [](/e/e5950.html)

  1

  [Shirakawago & Gokayama••](/e/e5950.html)

  Mountainous region, known for its farmhouses.

  4.5

  

  1,085
* [](/e/e6040.html)

  2

  [Kamikochi••](/e/e6040.html)

  Popular mountain resort in the Japanese Alps.

  4.4

  

  540
* [](/e/e5940.html)

  3

  [Okuhida•](/e/e5940.html)

  Hot springs in the mountains above Takayama.

  4.0

  

  268
* [](/e/e5930.html)

  4

  [Gujo-Hachiman•](/e/e5930.html)

  Small town in rural Japan with castle.

  3.8

  

  270
* [](/e/e5975.html)

  5

  [Furukawa•](/e/e5975.html)

  Small town 15 minutes north of Takayama.

  3.6

  

  164
* [](/e/e5990.html)

  6

  [Gero Onsen](/e/e5990.html)

  Famous hot spring resort south of Takayama.

  3.7

  

  402

[

Takayama Cherry Blossom Spots](/e/e5911.html)

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Takayama](/e/e5900.html)

[Getting to and around Takayama](/e/e5908.html)
[See access info](/e/e5908.html)

[

1 Day

City Highlights

Takayama Full Day Walk

* Explore the **old town**
* Stroll along the **Higashiyama Walking Course**

View itinerary](e5912_takayama_full.html)