---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5604.html
title: Mount Godaisan
description: Visitor guide for Godaisan, a mountain with temple and botanical garden in Kochi, Shikoku.
keywords: godaisan, godai, san, kochi, mountain, chikurinji, Makino, Botanical, Garden
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1654
char_count: 10893
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:18:54
---

Godaisan is a small mountain to the east of [Kochi](e5600.html)'s [downtown](e5605.html). It was named after a Chinese mountain by Buddhist priests visiting from China.

The same visiting priests established **Chikurinji Temple** on Godaisan, which has since become an important stop on the Shikoku Pilgrimage. Number 31 of the 88 [temples](e2058.html) along the pilgrimage, Chikurinji attracts pilgrims as well as students because of its reputation as a scholastic institution.

Pagoda at Chikurinji

Chikurinji's [temple](e2058.html) grounds feature an interesting array of halls and structures, including a beautiful five-storied pagoda. A treasure hall displays several [Buddhist](e2055.html) statues and scrolls of importance to the temple, and paid entrance to the hondo (main hall) offers a view of the building's interior and a nicely kept [garden](e2099.html).

Not far from Chikurinji is the entrance to the **Makino Botanical Garden**, named after Dr. Makino Tomitaro (1862-1957), a famous botanist from [Kochi](e5600.html). The spacious garden includes extensive walking paths, outdoor parks, a greenhouse and several large museum halls with excellent information and displays on Dr. Makino and his field of study.

Makino Botanical Garden

The [My Yu Bus](e5603.html) operates between Kochi Station, Godaisan and [Katsurahama Beach](e5602.html). The trip from Kochi Station to Godaisan takes 25 minutes and costs 900 yen for a day pass for unlimited rides between Kochi Station and Godaisan or 1300 yen for unlimited rides between Kochi Station and [Katsurahama](e5602.html). A [taxi](e2021.html) ride from Kochi Station to the summit takes about 20 minutes and costs around 2300 yen.

[How to get to and around Kochi](e5603.html)