---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5211.html
title: Hakone Museum of Art
description: Visitor guide for the Hakone Museum of Art.
keywords: hakone, art, museum
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1635
char_count: 11001
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:43:47
---

The Hakone Museum of Art (箱根美術館, Hakone Bijutsukan), located in Gora, was founded by Okada Mokichi in 1952. Its sister museum, the [MOA Museum of Art](e6306.html) was later built in [Atami City](e6317.html) on the [Izu Peninsula](e6310.html).

The **museum** displays mainly Japanese [ceramics](e2329.html) from [prehistoric times](e2131.html) through the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1600-1868). These include a number of large earthenware and ceramic vessels such as a haniwa burial statue classified as an Important Cultural Property.

Moss Garden

The museum also features a pretty **moss garden** with stone paths winding through the shade of its maple trees. The garden beautifully reflects the seasons with brilliant [autumn colors](e2014.html) during November and vibrant greens in spring. There is also a teahouse where [green tea](e2041.html) is served for a small fee.

Besides the moss garden, the museum grounds additionally feature a Japanese [landscape garden](e2099.html), the **Sekirakuen Garden**. The garden spreads over the slopes of Gora, featuring large decorative stones, a mountain stream and views over the valley and mountains.

Sekirakuen Garden

The museum is located on the slopes of Gora, just above [Gora Park](e5216.html). It is a three minute walk from Koenkami Station of the Hakone Tozan Cablecar between Gora and Sounzan, or a ten minute walk uphill from Gora Station.

[How to get to and around Hakone](e5206.html)