---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5850.html
title: Iwami Ginzan Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Iwami Ginzan, an area famous for some of the world's most productive silver mines.
keywords: iwami, ginzan, silver, mine, guide, travel, tourism, sightseeing, tourist, visit, visitor
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 316
char_count: 2418
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:49:37
---

Iwami Ginzan (石見銀山) is a historic silver mine in the mountains of Oda City, [Shimane Prefecture](/list/e1237.html). The most prominent silver mine in Japan's history, it was built in the early [16th century](e2134.html) and remained in business for nearly 400 years.

The main attractions are divided into three areas. The [Silver Mine](e5852.html) area includes mine shafts and ruins from the area's mining period as well as a few temples and shrines. The [Omori Town](e5853.html) area includes museums, historical residences, and more shrines and temples.

The final area consists of the onsen town of [Yunotsu](e5854.html) and nearby port towns, which have their own attractions such as the mooring stones of Okidomari. The port towns are connected to the mining area by two hiking trails that also lead to castle ruins.

The preservation and revitalization of Iwami Ginzan's historic sites began over 50 years ago as a local movement. Eventually gaining prefectural and national support, the area was named a [World Heritage Site](e2251.html) in July 2007.

* [](/e/e5853.html)

  1

  Historic Site

  [Omori Town](/e/e5853.html)

  Pleasant small town with historical buildings.

  3.7

  

  65
* [](/e/e5854.html)

  2

  Onsen

  [Yunotsu Onsen](/e/e5854.html)

  Hot spring resort at the Sea of Japan coast.

  3.5

  

  40
* [](/e/e5852.html)

  3

  Industry/Commerce

  [Silver Mine](/e/e5852.html)

  Former mining area with shafts and ruins.

  3.3

  

  84

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Iwami](/e/e5850.html)

[Getting to and around Iwami Ginzan](/e/e5851.html)
[See access info](/e/e5851.html)