---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5431.html
title: How to get to and around Shodoshima\: Access, Orientation and Transportation
description: About access, orientation and transportation around Shodoshima.
keywords: shodoshima, island, access, orientation, transportation, guide, travel, directions, bus, ferries
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 784
char_count: 5422
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:34:08
---

### How to get to Shodoshima

#### From Takamatsu   *([how to get to Takamatsu](e5404.html))*

Multiple [ferry](e2355.html) companies operate ferries from [Takamatsu](e5400.html) to Tonosho and Ikeda ports on [Shodoshima](e5430.html). The one way journey takes around one hour and costs 700 yen per person or around 6500 yen for a regular sized car. Tonosho Port enjoys the most frequent connections with not only hourly car ferries, but also hourly high speed boats that take only 30 minutes, but cost 1400 yen one way. Connections to Ikeda (every 1-2 hours) are less frequent. Online reservations for the car ferries can be made through [Willer](https://willer-travel.com/en/ferry/carrier/96.html?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184).

#### From Okayama   *([how to get to Okayama](e5703.html))*

There are two ports near [Okayama](e5700.html) that provide [ferry](e2355.html) connections to [Shodoshima](e5430.html):

From Okayama Station take a bus bound for **Shin-Okayama Port** (40 minutes, 500 yen one way, every 2 hours) from where there is a [ferry](e2355.html) every 1-2 hours to Tonosho Port on [Shodoshima](e5430.html) (70 minutes, 1200 yen per person, around 8000 yen per regular sized car). A discount ticket which includes both the bus and ferry ride is available for 1500 yen from the Okayama Bus Terminal as well as at the ferry terminal at Tonosho Port.

Direct JR [trains](e2019.html) operate between Okayama Station and Uno Station in the early mornings, late afternoons and evenings (45 minutes, 590 yen). Outside of those times, a transfer of trains is required at Chayamachi Station. Across the street from Uno Station is the **Uno Ferry Terminal** from where [ferries](e2355.html) depart to Tonosho Port on [Shodoshima](e5430.html) (60-90 minutes, 1260 yen one way, every 1-3 hours) with brief stops at Ieura and Karato ports on [Teshima Island](e5440.html) along the way.

#### From Himeji   *([how to get to Himeji](e3504.html))*

Shikoku Ferry operates car [ferries](e2355.html) every two hours between [Himeji](e3500.html) and Fukuda Port on [Shodoshima](e5430.html). The one way ride takes about 100 minutes and costs 1,900 yen per person and around 10,000 yen for a regular sized car. Online reservations can be made through [Willer](https://willer-travel.com/en/ferry/carrier/96.html?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184). Note that Fukuda Port's location is rather remote, but bus connections to other parts of the island are usually timed with ferry arrivals.

#### From Kobe   *([how to get to Kobe](e3554.html))*

Kobe Shodoshima Jumbo Ferry operates multiple [ferries](e2355.html) per day between [Kobe](e2159.html) and Sakate Port on [Shodoshima](e5430.html). The one way ride takes about three hours and costs 1990 yen per person (plus 340 yen each on weekends and for the overnight ferries) and around 8000 yen for a regular sized car (fare for the driver included). Online reservations can be made through [Willer](https://willer-travel.com/en/ferry/carrier/53.html?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184).

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](/e/e2196.html).

With a width of about 20 kilometers, [Shodoshima](e5430.html) is the second largest island in the [Seto Inland Sea](e5445.html) and is well connected with [Shikoku](/list/e1107.html), Honshu and its smaller neighboring islands by a multitude of [ferry](e2355.html) lines. The island has half a dozen different ports. Towns and villages are concentrated along the coast, while the interior is mountainous and only sparsely inhabited.

The largest town on Shodoshima is Tonosho in the west of the island. Its port, **Tonosho Port**, has the most frequent ferry connections from both [Takamatsu](e5400.html) and [Okayama](e5700.html).

A **bus network** connects all of [Shodoshima](e5430.html)'s various ports and coastal areas. [Bus](e2015.html) service is frequent (roughly two buses per hour) along the southern coast between the ports of Tonosho, Kusakabe and Sakate, but considerably less frequent on the island's other bus lines, e.g. along the northern coast and in the interior. The [monkey park](e5436.html) is not even served by buses. Bus rides cost a maximum of 500 yen per ride despite the considerable distances covered by some of the lines.

The most convenient means to get around [Shodoshima](e5430.html) is a **rental car**. A few [rental car](e2024.html) outlets are found around Tonosho Port and some of the other ports. Cars can also be brought by [ferry](e2355.html) onto the island, but it is relatively expensive (around 6000 yen one way from [Takamatsu](e5400.html)). Rental [bicycles](e2210.html) may be another option and are available at Tonosho Port as well as a few hotels and resorts for around 1500 yen per day.