---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5414.html
title: Best cherry blossom spots in Takamatsu (Takamatsu Hanami Spots)
description: A list of popular hanami (cherry blossom viewing) spots in Takamatsu.
keywords: takamatsu, sakura, cherry, blossom, blossoms, hanami, spot, spots
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1683
char_count: 11388
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:03:57
---

Below is a list of popular spots for cherry blossom viewing ([hanami](e2011.html)) in and around [Takamatsu](e5400.html), including the typical timing for best viewing in the average year and japan-guide.com ratings. See also our nationwide list of [famous cherry blossom spots](e2011_where.html).

* 

  [Ritsurin Koen•](e5401.html)

  Early April

  15 minute walk from Kotoden Ritsurinkoen Station  
  6:30 to 18:00 (March), 5:30 to 18:30 (April), 500 yen

  The Japanese style pond garden of [Ritsurin Koen](e5401.html) features only a relatively small number of cherry trees. More trees and lawned areas for picnics are found in the Western style half of the park.
* 

  [Takamatsu Castle (Tamamo Park)](e5403.html)

  Early April

  A short walk from JR Takamatsu Station  
  6:30 to 18:00 (March), 5:30 to 18:30 (April), 200 yen

  A few dozen cherry trees stand in the lawned area of [Tamamo Park](e5403.html)'s southwestern corner. The corner is named Sakuranobaba after its former function as horse riding grounds.
* 

  [Megijima Island••](e5412.html)

  Early April

  20 minute ferry ride from Takamatsu Port

  Hundreds of cherry trees are planted around the mountaintop park of [Megijima](e5412.html)'s tallest peak, where the island's ogre caves are also located. The park affords wonderful views over the [Seto Inland Sea](e5445.html). More trees line the street leading from the ferry terminal up the mountain.

### Near Takamatsu

* 

  [Marugame Castle•](e5469.html)

  Early April

  30-60 minutes outside of Takamatsu by JR train

  Located in [Marugame City](e5465.html), a 30-60 minute train ride west of Takamatsu, [Marugame Castle](e5469.html) features almost 1000 cherry trees around its hilltop location, overlooking the city and the Seto Inland Sea. Marugame Castle is one of only twelve [castles](e2296.html) in Japan whose keeps have survived the post-feudal era intact.
* 

  [Kompira Shrine](e5451.html)

  Early April

  One hour outside of Takamatsu by Kotoden or JR train

  Located in [Kotohira](e5450.html), a one hour train ride outside of Takamatsu, [Kompira Shrine](e5451.html) is famous for its long approach involving many stone stairs. Many cherry trees are planted along the approach.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

[How to get to and around Takamatsu](e5404.html)