---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5159.html
title: Best cherry blossom spots in Sendai (Sendai Hanami Spots)
description: A list of popular hanami (cherry blossom viewing) spots in Sendai.
keywords: sendai, sakura, cherry, blossom, blossoms, hanami, spot, spots
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1980
char_count: 13203
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:04:30
---

Below is a list of [Sendai](e5150.html)'s most popular spots for cherry blossom viewing ([hanami](e2011.html)), including the typical timing for best viewing in the average year and japan-guide.com ratings. See also our nationwide list of [famous cherry blossom spots](e2011_where.html).

### Central Sendai

* 

  Mikamine Park•

  Mid to late April

  30 minute walk from Nagamachi Minami Station along the Nanboku Subway Line

  Located south of central Sendai, Mikamine Park is a spacious public park with hundreds of large, beautiful cherry trees and wide lawns, offering plenty of space to hold cherry blossom viewing parties underneath its cherry trees.
* 

  Tsutsujigaoka Park•

  Mid to late April

  Next to Tsutsujigaoka Station or a 20 minute walk east of Sendai Station

  Tsutsujigaoka Park is a public park in central Sendai, just one stop east of Sendai Station. The park has a variety of [Somei Yoshino](e2011_species.html) and weeping cherry trees planted along its paved lanes, and lots of space for cherry blossom viewing parties can be found along the walkways and underneath the trees.
* 

  Nishi Park

  Mid to late April

  Short walk from Omachi Nishi-koen along the Tozai Subway Line

  Dozens of cherry trees are planted around the park's southern lawn which makes for a good place to hold cherry blossom viewing parties. A cherry blossom festival is held every year in mid April featuring food stands and cherry blossom illuminations.

### Near Sendai

* 

  Saigyo Modoshi no Matsu Park•

  Late April to early May

  15-20 minute walk uphill from Matsushima Kaigan Station or a 5 minute taxi ride

  Saigyo Modoshi no Matsu Park is a mountainside park in [Matsushima](e5100.html) which overlooks [Matsushima Bay](e5101.html) from behind Matsushima Kaigan Station. About 260 cherry trees are planted on the hillside and tend to open several days later than those around Sendai.
* 

  [Shiogama Shrine•](e5042.html)

  Mid April to early May

  10 minute walk from Hon-Shiogama or 15 minute walk from Shiogama Station

  30 minutes by train from Sendai, [Shiogama](e5041.html) is a port town known for the highest density of sushi restaurants in Japan. The city's other main attraction, [Shiogama Shrine](e5042.html), is famous for the nearly 300 cherry trees of around 30 different [varieties](e2011_species.html) that are planted around its grounds. Due to the many varieties present, the blooming season at Shiogama Shrine is prolonged and typically lasts from mid April to early May.
* 

  Shiroishi Riverside•

  Mid to late April

  Between Funaoka and Ogawara stations

  About 30 minutes south of [Sendai](e5150.html) by train, the Shiroishi Riverside is an eight kilometer long stretch of the Shiroishi River lined on both embankments by nearly 1200 cherry trees. The famous view of the area is the "Hitome Senbonzakura", a spot about halfway between Funagaoka and Ogawara stations from where on a clear day you can see 1000 cherry trees in combination with [Mount Zao](e7925.html) in the distance.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

[How to get to and around Sendai](e5151.html)