---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5903.html
title: Takayama Old Town
description: Visitor guide for the old town of Takayama, which retains a nostalgic Edo Period flavor.
keywords: takayama, sanmachi, suji, old, town, sannomachi
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2514
char_count: 17257
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:31:57
---

[Takayama](e5900.html)'s old town has been beautifully preserved with many buildings and whole streets of houses dating back to the [feudal ages](e2128.html), when the city thrived as a wealthy merchant town.

The southern half of the old town, especially the Sannomachi Street, survives in a particularly pretty state with many old homes, shops, cafes and [sake breweries](#sake), some of which have been in business for centuries. The shops in the area are typically open daily from 9:00 to 17:00.

A rickshaw ride through the streets of the old town

Several homes in the old town open their doors to the public. They provide a glimpse behind the facade into the former living quarters of the local merchants and exhibit traditional household goods and local arts and crafts.

A pleasant alternative to exploring [Takayama](e5900.html)'s old town on foot is getting pulled through the streets on a rickshaw. A 30 minute tour for two costs around 7000 yen. Shorter and longer courses are also available.

### Southern area

* 

  [Takayama Jinya•](e5902.html)

  Hours: 8:45 to 17:00 (until 16:30 from November to February)  
  Closed: December 29, 31 and January 1  
  Admission: 440 yen  
  Typical visit duration: 60 minutes

  A beautiful traditional Japanese-style building, the [Takayama Jinya](e5902.html) used to serve as Takayama's government office during the [feudal era](e2128.html), when the city stood under direct control of the shogun due to its valuable timber resources.
* 

  Old sake breweries

  Hours: typically 9:00 to 17:00

  [Sake](e2037_sake.html) is one of [Takayama](e5900.html)'s local specialties. Several old sake breweries can be found in Takayama's old town, recognized by sugidama (balls made of cedar branches) hung over their entrances. Small samples of sake can be purchased at some breweries.
* 

  Takayama Museum of History and Art

  Hours: 9:00 to 19:00 (garden 7:00 to 21:00)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free  
  Typical visit duration: 45 minutes

  The Museum of Local History (Hida-Takayama Machi no Hakubutsukan) is an interesting museum about the history and culture of [Takayama City](e5900.html). It is housed in an old, restored building.
* 

  Takayama Showa Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 1200 yen   
  Typical visit duration: 45-60 minutes

  A spacious museum dedicated to all things from the Showa Period (1926-1989), particularly the 1950s. A recreated town allows visitors to walk through nostalgic displays of contemporary life including houses and restaurants. There are also some interactive exhibits including the chance to play on retro video games consoles.

### Northern area

* 

  Hachiman Shrine

  Hours: Always open  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free  
  Typical visit duration: 10 minutes

  Sakurayama Hachiman Shrine (Sakurayama Hachimangu) stands in the northeastern area of Takayama's old town. The [shrine](e2059.html)'s festival, the [Takayama Autumn Festival](e5909.html), is celebrated on October 9-10.
* 

  [Takayama Matsuri Yatai Kaikan](e5905.html)

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (until 16:30 from December to February)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 1000 yen  
  Typical visit duration: 45 minutes

  Located just next to Hachiman Shrine, the Takayama Matsuri Yatai Kaikan (festival float exhibition hall) exhibits four of the [autumn festival](e5909.html)'s eleven festival floats. English audio guides are available.
* 

  Karakuri Museum

  Currently closed  
  Hours: 9:05 to 16:25  
  Closed: Irregular closing days during winter  
  Admission: 600 yen  
  Typical visit duration: 40 minutes

  Also located at Hachiman Shrine, the Karakuri Museum (mechanical doll museum) displays mechanical dolls (karakuri ningyo) which get mounted onto [festival floats](e5909.html). The museum also shows over 200 shishimai (lion dance) masks from around Japan.
* 

  Kusakabe Heritage House•

  Hours: 10:00 to 16:00  
  Closed: Tuesdays (or next day if Tuesday is a [national holiday](e2062.html))  
  Admission: 1000 yen  
  Typical visit duration: 30 minutes

  The Kusakabe Heritage House (Kusakabe Mingeikan) is one of the oldest merchant homes open to the public. Its former residents, the Kusakabe family, used to be successful money lenders.
* 

  Yoshijima Heritage House•

  Hours: 9:30 to 15:30  
  Closed: Mondays and Tuesdays in summer, Monday to Thursday in winter  
  Admission: 500 yen  
  Typical visit duration: 30 minutes

  Standing right next to the Kusakabe Heritage House is the Yoshijima Heritage House (Yoshijima-ke), the former residence of the Yoshijima family. Also open to the public, the building used to serve as a residence and sake brewery.
* 

  [Takayama Morning Markets](e5907.html)

  Takayama Jinya market: 6:00 to 12:00 (from 7:00 from Jan to Mar)  
  Miyagawa market: 7:00 to 12:00 (from 8:00 from Dec to Mar)

  Two [morning markets](e5907.html) (asaichi) are held in Takayama on a daily basis, one in front of the [Takayama Jinya](e5902.html) and one along Miyagawa River. Most stands sell local crafts and farm products such as vegetables, pickles and flowers.

Takayama's old town can be reached in a ten minute walk from Takayama Station.

[How to get to and around Takayama](e5908.html)