---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5576.html
title: How to get to and around Uwajima\: Access, Transportation and Orientation
description: How to get to and around Uwajima.
keywords: uwajima, access, orientation, transportation, directions, getting there, train, bus, ferry
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 450
char_count: 3121
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:31:26
---

### How to get to Uwajima

#### By train from Matsuyama   *([how to get to Matsuyama](e5504.html))*

[Uwajima](e5575.html) can be reached from [Matsuyama](e5500.html) by [limited express trains](e2016.html) (80 minutes, about 3500 yen one way, hourly departures) or [local trains](e2016.html) (about three hours, 2010 yen one way, one train every 2-3 hours) on the JR Yosan Line. The trip is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and the [All Shikoku Rail Pass](e2357_shikoku.html).

#### By ferry from Beppu   *([how to get to Beppu](e4705.html))*

[Beppu](e4700.html) is connected to Yawatahama by [ferry](e2355.html) (3 hours, around 4000 yen one way in the cheapest class, departures every 3-4 hours). To get to Uwajima from Yawatahama Ferry Terminal, walk for 20 minutes to Yawatahama Station and take a [limited express train](e2016.html) (30 minutes, about 1500-2000 yen one way, hourly departures) or a [local train](e2016.html) (one hour, 740 yen one way, one departure every 2-3 hours) on the JR Yosan Line to Uwajima.

#### By train from Kochi   *([how to get to Kochi](e5603.html))*

Train connections between Uwajima and [Kochi](e5600.html) are very infrequent, time-consuming and require a transfer at Kubokawa. The entire one way journey takes around five hours and costs 3400 yen. The trip is fully covered by the [All Shikoku Rail Pass](e2357_shikoku.html), but [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) holders have to pay a supplement fee of 210 yen, because the trains partially use [non-JR tracks](e2368.html).

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](/e/e2196.html).

The sights of [Uwajima](e5575.html) are located within walking distance of Uwajima Station. From the station, it takes about 10-15 minutes to walk to the gate of Uwajima Castle and about 20-30 minutes to walk to the [Date Museum](e5578.html). [Taxi](e2021.html) rides around the city center are unlikely to cost more than 1000 yen.

Uwajima Bus offers the alternative method to get around town. Hourly [buses](e2015.html) connect Uwajima Station, Uwajima Bus Center (located at the foot of [Uwajima Castle](e5577.html), a short walk from the castle's gate) and the Tenshaen-mae (天赦園前) bus stop that serves [Tenshaen Garden](e5579.html) and the [Date Museum](e5578.html). It costs 160 yen for a one way ride between these destinations. Due to a lack of English information, it can be slightly challenging for foreign tourists to use these buses.