---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5051.html
title: Tokyo to Morioka\: How to get to and around Morioka
description: How to get to and around Morioka.
keywords: morioka, travel, access, orientation, transportation, how, to, get, directions, bus, train, shinkansen
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 372
char_count: 2712
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:36:52
---

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

[Tokyo](e2164.html) and Morioka are connected with each other by the [JR Tohoku Shinkansen](e2018_tohoku.html). The one way ride by [Hayabusa](e2018_tohoku.html) train takes about 2.5 hours, costs around 15,000 yen and is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html) and [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html). Note that seat reservations are mandatory on Hayabusa trains. Alternatively, the journey takes about one hour longer by [Yamabiko](e2018_tohoku.html), which - unlike Hayabusa trains - carries non-reserved seating.

Multiple companies operate overnight [highway buses](e2366.html) between [Tokyo](e2164.html) and Morioka. The one way ride takes about eight hours and costs between 5,000 and 13,000 yen one way depending on the travel date and company. Online reservations can be made through the [Willer website](https://willer-travel.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/iwate/morioka/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184) and [Japan Bus Online](https://japanbusonline.com/en/AreaSearch2/3130000/2032018/?afcd=MDI=).

[Book Now](https://willer-travel.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/iwate/morioka/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184)

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

[Morioka](e5050.html)'s city center is relatively flat and compact and can be explored on foot by good walkers. The [castle ruins park](e5054.html) is about 20 minutes on foot from the station.

The **Dendenmushi Loop Bus** circles around downtown Morioka in both directions and serves the castle ruins park among other stops. Buses operate every 20 minutes in both directions. The fare is 150 yen per ride or 400 yen for a 1-day pass.

[Rental bicycles](e2210.html) are another way of exploring the city. There are a few rental outlets in the city - including some near, but not at the station - with rental fees around 400 yen per hour or around 1500 yen for an entire day.