---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5701.html
title: Korakuen Garden
description: Visitor guide for Korakuen, the famous landscape garden of Okayama.
keywords: korakuen, garden, okayama
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1857
char_count: 12275
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:22:11
---

Korakuen (後楽園, Kōrakuen) is a beautiful [landscape garden](e2099.html) and [Okayama](e5700.html)'s main attraction. Along with [Kanazawa](e2167.html)'s [Kenrokuen](e4200.html) and [Mito](e6200.html)'s [Kairakuen](e6201.html), Korakuen is ranked as one of Japan's three best landscape gardens. It is located just beside [Okayama Castle](e5702.html), which can be seen from the garden as "borrowed scenery".

The local feudal lord ordered the construction of Korakuen in 1687 as a place of entertainment for the ruling family and a location for receiving important guests. Occasionally, the public was permitted to enter the garden.

One of the garden's buildings

In 1884, a few years after the end of the [feudal era](e2128.html), Korakuen became the property of Okayama Prefecture and was opened to the public. The garden suffered damage from floods in 1934 and bombing during the [war](e2129.html), but it has always been restored to its original state thanks to the accurate records kept by the garden's designers.

Korakuen is a spacious garden that incorporates the typical features of a Japanese [landscape garden](e2099.html), including a large pond, streams, walking paths and a hill that serves as a lookout point. Rather unique for a Japanese garden, however, are Korakuen's spacious lawns. Also found in the garden are groves of plum, cherry and maple trees, tea and rice fields, an archery range and a crane aviary.

Looking across the garden

Korakuen has two entrance gates: a main gate beside the [Prefectural Museum](e5704.html) and a south gate near the bridge that crosses to [Okayama Castle](e5702.html).

Korakuen is about 1.5 kilometers or a 25-30 minute walk east of Okayama Station. Trams on the Higashiyama Line can be taken to Shiroshita stop (5 minutes, 120 yen one way, frequent departures) from where the garden's south gate can be reached in a 10-15 minute walk.

[How to get to and around Okayama](e5703.html)