---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5465.html
title: Marugame Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Marugame, a city in western Kagawa Prefecture.
keywords: marugame, city, tourist, visitor, tourism, travel, guide, sightseeing, information, kagawa, shiwaku, honjima
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 300
char_count: 2371
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:50:19
---

Marugame (丸亀) is a port city in western [Kagawa Prefecture](/list/e1233.html) on [Shikoku](/list/e1107.html), located just west of the Seto Ohashi Bridge which connects Shikoku to Japan's main island of Honshu.

The second largest city in the prefecture, Marugame includes many of the Shiwaku Islands, a historically important island group that lies just off the coast of the city. The Shiwaku Islands include [Honjima Island](e5468.html), the former governing center of the island group. Several of the islands serve as festival venues for the [Setouchi Triennale](e5410.html).

For centuries, Marugame's location along the [Seto Inland Sea](e5445.html) has made it an important player in maritime trade and transportation through the region. [Marugame Castle](e5469.html) was built high up on a hill overlooking the city as a means to help control the area. The [castle](e2296.html) is one of only twelve so-called "original castles" in Japan, i.e. castles whose keeps have survived the post-feudal period (since 1868) intact.

* [](/e/e5468.html)

  1

  Historic Site

  [Honjima Island•](/e/e5468.html)

  Main island of the Shiwaku Islands.

  15
* [](/e/e5469.html)

  2

  Castle

  [Marugame Castle](/e/e5469.html)

  Smallest keep among the original castles.

  3.5

  

  94
* [](/e/e5470.html)

  3

  Museum

  [Mimoca](/e/e5470.html)

  Contemporary art museum next to the station.

  17
* [](/e/e5472.html)

  4

  [Awashima Island](/e/e5472.html)

  Nice island and former site of a sailor school.

  17
* [](/e/e5467.html)

  5

  Museum

  [Shamijima](/e/e5467.html)

  Former island next to the Seto Ohashi Bridge.

  9
* [](/e/e5471.html)

  6

  [Takamijima Island](/e/e5471.html)

  Island with a small, depopulated village.

  7
* [](/e/e5473.html)

  7

  [Ibukijima Island](/e/e5473.html)

  Small island with fishing town off Shikoku.

  7

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Marugame](/e/e5465.html)

[Getting to and around Marugame](/e/e5466.html)
[See access info](/e/e5466.html)