---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5319.html
title: Sapporo Kokusai Ski Resort
description: Visitor guide for Sapporo Kokusai Ski Resort on the outskirts of Sapporo City.
keywords: sapporo, kokusai, ski, resort, snow, snowboard, powder
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1946
char_count: 13227
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:04:34
---

Sapporo Kokusai (札幌国際スキー場, Sapporo Kokusai Skījō) is a [ski resort](e2262.html) located on the outskirts of [Sapporo](e2163.html). Compared to other nearby popular resorts, Sapporo Kokusai is not the largest with only five lifts and seven courses, but what it lacks in size it makes up for in snow. The resort receives massive snowfalls, rivaling amounts seen at [Niseko](e6720.html).

With six of its seven courses rated green or blue, Sapporo Kokusai accommodates beginner and intermediate riders well, but its single black run might not be as appealing for advanced riders in search of steep slopes. However, the resort does feature interesting off-piste and tree areas (many in-bounds) which offer great opportunities for enjoying deep powder snow.

Local ski school students in front of the main lodge

Sapporo Kokusai is situated in the mountains about an hour drive from downtown Sapporo, not far from the [hot spring](e2292.html) town of [Jozankei Onsen](e6745.html). The convenient location makes it a good choice for those with limited time in Sapporo or those looking for an alternative to the mega-popular [Niseko](e6720.html) resorts. It also means it can get quite crowded on weekends and [holidays](e2062.html).

Sapporo Kokusai Ski Resort

A small but popular ski resort within easy access from Sapporo and Otaru known for tons of high-quality powder every year. Lift ticket prices are lowered during the shoulder seasons and if purchased online.

Season\*

**Late November to early May**  
(November 21, 2025 to May 6, 2025)

Lifts

4 lifts

Tickets

Full day
6000 yen

Half day
5500 yen

Access

Bus
About 90 minutes from Sapporo Station Bus Terminal.

Car
About 60 minutes from central Sapporo via Route 230 or about 40 minutes from central Otaru.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

### From Sapporo

Several morning and late afternoon [buses](e2015.html) run between the Sapporo Station Bus Terminal (located in front of JR Sapporo Station) and Sapporo Kokusai between early December and late March and fewer in the shoulder seasons. The one way ride takes 90 minutes and costs 1800 yen. A ticket that combines the bus round trip with a 1-day lift pass is available for 8800 yen. Reservations should be made in advance.

Alternatively, the resort can be reached by [car](e2024.html) in about 60 minutes from central Sapporo via Route 230. Winter driving skills are required to drive in Hokkaido in winter.

[How to get to and around Sapporo](e5306.html)