---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5876.html
title: How to get to and around Tsuwano\: Access, Transportation and Orientation
description: How to get to and around Tsuwano.
keywords: tsuwano, access, orientation, transportation, how to get to, directions, train, bus
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 489
char_count: 3364
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:07:37
---

Tsuwano lies in the very west of [Shimane Prefecture](/list/e1237.html) just across the border of [Yamaguchi Prefecture](/list/e1239.html). It is closer to [Yamaguchi City](e6100.html) than to the prefectural capital of [Matsue](e5800.html).

The typical tourist approaches from the south via Yamaguchi or from the east via Matsue or [Izumo](e5830.html). A visit to [Tsuwano](e5875.html) is also often combined with a visit to [Hagi](e6150.html) to the northwest.

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

[How to get to Yamaguchi](/e/e6106.html)

A few [limited express](e2016.html#category) trains connect Tsuwano and Shin-Yamaguchi stations (60 minutes, about 2500 yen one way), stopping at Yamaguchi Station along the way (50 minutes, about 2500 yen one way). Slightly more frequent [local trains](e2016.html#category) make the same trip in about 100 minutes and usually require a transfer of trains at Yamaguchi Station. The one way fare is 1170 yen.

The SL Yamaguchi steam locomotive makes one round trip per day between Shin-Yamaguchi and Tsuwano stations on selected days outside of winter. Seat reservations have to be made in advance. The one way trip takes about two hours and the reserved seat costs 530 yen in addition to the local train fare.

All the above-mentioned trains are fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html).

[How to get to Hagi](/e/e6155.html)

Bocho Bus operates [buses](e2015.html) every 2-3 hours between Tsuwano and [Hagi](e6150.html) (100 minutes, 2200 yen one way). The buses are not covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html).

Alternatively, Tsuwano and Higashi-Hagi stations are connected by trains, requiring a transfer at Masuda Station along the way (1690 yen one way). The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) covers the full trip, but connections are infrequent, and the journey typically takes three hours or more.

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

[How to get to Matsue](/e/e5805.html)

A few [limited express](e2016.html#category) directly connect [Matsue](e5800.html) with Tsuwano, stopping at [Izumo](e5830.html) along the way. The one way trip takes around three hours and 6000 yen from Matsue or about 2.5 hours and 5500 yen from Izumo. The trip can also be done by [local trains](e2016.html#category) via Masuda Station (about 3.5 hours, 3410 yen one way from Matsue, one connection every 1-2 hours). All trains are fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html).

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

Tsuwano is best explored on foot or by [bicycle](e2210.html). Most of the town's attractions are within a 30 minutes walk from Tsuwano Station. Bicycle rental shops can be found around Tsuwano Station (typically open from 8:00 to 17:00). Rental fees are about 500 yen for two hours or 800 yen for the entire day.