---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5108.html
title: Entsuin Temple
description: Visitor guide for Entsuin, a temple in Matsushima.
keywords: entsuin, entsuuin, temple. matsushima
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1431
char_count: 9630
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:30:55
---

Entsuin's main hall (Daihitei)

Entsuin Temple (円通院, Entsūin) was built in 1647 next to [Matsushima](e5100.html)'s most important temple, [Zuiganji Temple](e5102.html), to house the mausoleum of Date Mitsumune, the son of the ruling local feudal lord Date Terumune. The temple was built in mourning and is devoted to Kannon, the Buddhist goddess of mercy, as Mitsumune died an untimely death at the age of 19.

Back in the grounds stands the **mausoleum**, which houses a statue of the young lord on a white horse surrounded by his most devoted followers, who committed ritual suicide upon his death. The mausoleum's interior is decorated in gold leaf and ornate paintings, which include small Western symbols of spades, hearts, diamonds, clubs, crosses and the oldest Japanese image of a rose. These symbols were included into the design, as the Date Clan had an interest in [Christianity](e2298.html) and Western technology and recently had [sent envoys to the Pope in Rome](e5048.html).

Mausoleum of Date Mitsumune

Entsuin's **main hall** was originally Mitsumune's summer residence in [Edo](e2128.html) (now [Tokyo](e2164.html)) before his death, and was relocated to Matsushima by his father, who surrounded the structure with gardens and renamed it Daihitei, meaning "mercy" in Japanese.

Of the two **gardens** near the main hall, the first is a Japanese-style moss and maple [garden](e2099.html) with a heart shaped pond, while the second is a Western-style rose garden influenced by paintings from inside the mausoleum. Additionally, there is a moss and rock garden near the temple's entrance, as well as a cedar grove for meditation at the back of the temple grounds.

Western-style rose garden

Entsuin is next to [Zuiganji Temple](e5102.html) and a five minute walk from JR Matsushima Kaigan Station.

[How to get to and around Matsushima](e5105.html)