---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5208.html
title: Hakone Open Air Museum
description: Visitor guide for the Hakone Open Air Museum (Chokoku no Mori Bijutsukan).
keywords: hakone, open, air, museum, chokoku, mori, bijutsukan
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1695
char_count: 11306
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:43:51
---

The Hakone Open Air Museum (箱根彫刻の森美術館, Hakone Chōkoku No Mori Bijutsukan) successfully attempts to create a harmonic balance of nature and art by exhibiting various sculptures on its grounds in combination with views of the surrounding valley and mountains.

The museum has various different sections and exhibition spaces outdoors and indoors. The Picasso Exhibition Hall is one such space and showcases two stories of paintings, sculptures and ceramic works by the artist in addition to photos of him at various points during his life.

The Picasso Exhibition Hall

Outside, the verdant lawns of the museum are dotted with abstract sculptures from Japanese and international artists. One of the larger pieces is the Symphonic Sculpture. More reminiscent of a tower than a sculpture, visitors can enter and ascend a spiral staircase surrounded by colorful stained glass to a viewing platform with views of the park and the surrounding mountains.

The museum also offers several more exhibition halls with rotating exhibitions by various artists, shops and cafes that overlook some of the installations, multiple kids spaces including Zig Zag World where children can play among a soft art installation, and an outdoor foot bath.

Inside the Symphonic Sculpture

The Hakone Open Air Museum is a few steps from Chokoku No Mori Station on the [Hakone Tozan Railway](e5202.html) (30 minutes, 460 yen from Hakone-Yumoto, covered by the [Hakone Free Pass](e2358_008.html)), the last station before the Gora terminal. From Gora, the museum is a 10-15 minute walk.

[How to get to and around Hakone](e5206.html)