---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5209.html
title: Hakone Hot Spring Baths (Onsen)
description: A list of hot spring baths (onsen) in the Hakone area.
keywords: hakone, hot, spring, onsen, springs, spa, baths
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2071
char_count: 13972
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:44:09
---

Hakone Yumoto

[Hakone](e5200.html) has been one of Japan's most popular [hot spring](e2292.html) resorts for centuries. Today, more than a dozen springs provide hot water to the area's many bath houses and [ryokan](e2029.html).

Yumoto at the entrance to the [Hakone](e5200.html) area is Hakone's largest [hot spring](e2292.html) town with a particularly long history, high quality water and numerous baths and inns. More hot spring facilities are found across the hills and valleys of Hakone and along the shores of [Lake Ashi](e5201.html).

Visitors can enjoy a [hot spring](e2292.html) bath in [public bath houses](e2074.html) or [ryokan](e2029.html). Many ryokan open their baths not only to staying guests but also to daytime visitors. While staying guests can use the baths for free, daytime visitors pay an admission fee of typically between 500 and 2000 [yen](e2196.html).

Below is a list of some of Hakone's better baths open to the general public (shown in blue on the map):

### Yumoto

* 

  Tenzan•

  Hours: 9:00 to 23:00 (entry until 22:00)  
  Admission: 1450 yen

  Collection of nicely done hot spring pools, most of which are outdoors at the foot of a wooded slope. The bath house is a beautiful traditional Japanese style building. A short walk from Oku-Yumoto Iriguchi bus stop (bus line K).
* 

  Hakone Kamon•

  Daytime Hours: 10:30 to 17:00 (entry until 16:00)  
  Daytime Admission: 1980 yen  
  Overnight Stay: From 25,000 yen per person with two meals

  Multiple outdoor baths made of stone and wood including sauna and baths made of large ceramic pots. A cup of tea is served after the bath. Short shuttle bus ride from Yumoto Station (200 yen).
* 

  Hakone Yuryo•

  Hours: 10:00 to 20:00 (weekends until 21:00), entry ends one hour earlier  
  Admission: 1700 yen (weekdays), 2000 yen (weekends, [holidays](e2062.html))

  Hakone Yuryo is a tasteful public bath opened in spring 2013 on the former site of the Hakone Begonia Garden. The facility features gender segregated indoor and outdoor baths with nice views into the forest. There is also a large selection of private baths (additional fees apply) for families and couples that wish to bath together. A free shuttle bus operates every 10-15 minutes to/from Hakone Yumoto Station.
* 

  Yunosato Okada

  Hours: 11:00 to 23:00 (entry until 22:00)  
  Admission: 1650 yen

  Various pools, most of which are outdoors. Nice views of the valley can be enjoyed from the bath house, but unfortunately not from the pools. 10 minute shuttle bus ride from Yumoto Station (200 yen).
* 

  Kappa Tengoku

  Hours: 10:00 to 20:00 (until 21:00 on weekends and [holidays](e2062.html))  
  Admission: 900 yen

  Outdoor baths in the wooded slope just above Yumoto Station. The wooden bath house is slightly run-down but remains atmospheric. A five minute walk from the station.
* 

  Yumoto Fujiya Hotel

  Daytime Hours: 12:00 to 20:00  
  Daytime Admission: 2000 yen (weekdays), 2500 yen (weekends, [holidays](e2062.html))  
  Overnight Stay: From 29,000 yen per person including 2 meals

  Not to be confused with the historic Fujiya Hotel further up the valley, this hotel opens its baths to non-staying guests. The admission fee seems steep considering the hotel's rather average indoor and outdoor baths without views. Across the river from Yumoto Station.

### Kowakudani

* 

  Hotel Kowakien Yunessun•

  Yunessun: 10:00 to 18:00 (weekdays), 9:00 to 19:00 (weekends, [holidays](e2062.html))  
  Mori no Yu: 11:00 to 20:00  
  Admission ends one hour before closing  
  Admission: 2500 yen (Yunessun), 1500 yen (Mori no Yu), 3500 yen (both)  
  Higher fees during peak seasons.

  More water park than hot spring, this resort is split into two areas: "Yunessun" with themed pools and water attractions (bathing suits required), and "Mori No Yu" with traditional hot spring baths (no bathing suits). Located across the street from Hotel Kowakien.

### Sengoku

* 

  Hakone Green Plaza Hotel

  Daytime Hours: 13:00 to 18:00 (from 15:00 on Wednesdays and Thursdays)  
  Daytime Admission: 1600 yen  
  Overnight Stay: From 15,000 yen per person including 2 meals

  This hotel's large outdoor baths are some of the surprisingly few baths in Hakone that have views of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html) on clear days. A short walk from Ubako Station along the Hakone Ropeway.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

[How to get to and around Hakone](e5206.html)