---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5951.html
title: Ogimachi Village
description: Visitor guide for Ogimachi, a village to see gassho-zukuri farmhouses.
keywords: shirakawago, shirakawa, ogimachi, gassho, gasshozukuri, house, houses, travel, guide, tourism
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1264
char_count: 8827
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:21:07
---

Ogimachi (荻町) is the largest village and main attraction of [Shirakawa-go](e5950.html). Declared a [UNESCO world heritage site](e2251.html) in 1995, the village is home to several dozen well preserved gassho-zukuri farmhouses, some of which are more than 250 years old.

The farmhouses are quite amazing structures, designed to withstand the harsh winters while providing a place to work and live, and are best seen either covered in [snow](e2265.html) or surrounded by green fields. Many of the farmhouses are now restaurants, museums or [minshuku](e2026.html), where you can [stay overnight](e5952.html), the ultimate way of experiencing Shirakawago.

Some of the many gasshozukuri farmhouses

Furthermore, a number of farmhouses from the surrounding villages have been relocated to an [open-air museum](e2421.html) across the river from Ogimachi's village center in an effort to save them from destruction. This museum along with the large concentration of farmhouses and attractions in the village and the area's relatively good accessibility make Ogimachi the best place in Shirakawa-go and Gokayama to see gassho-zukuri farmhouses.

* 

  Gassho-zukuri Minkaen

  Hours: 8:40 to 17:00 (Mar to Nov), 9:00 to 16:00 (Dec to Feb)  
  Admission ends 20 minutes before closing  
  Closed: Thursdays from Dec to Mar (or Wed if Thu is a [holiday](e2062.html))  
  Admission: 800 yen

  This [open-air museum](e2421.html) lies across the river from the village center. It exhibits farmhouses and other structures relocated to Ogimachi in order to save them from destruction.
* 

  Shiroyama Viewpoint

  The Shiroyama Viewpoint north of the village center offers nice views of Ogimachi and its farmhouses. The viewpoint can be accessed via a walking trail (closed during/after heavy snow) in about 15-20 minutes from the village center or by a shuttle bus (300 yen one way), which stops near the Wada-ke House. The parking lot got closed to the public due to frequent bad behavior by tourists, such as long-term parking.
* 

  Kanda-ke House

  Hours: 10:00 to 16:00  
  Closed: Wednesdays (except [national holidays](e2062.html))  
  Admission: 400 yen

  This picturesque house is one of the best preserved farmhouse turned museums in Ogimachi. Located in the village center, you can get good views of the surrounding houses from the windows on its upper floors.
* 

  Nagase-ke House

  Hours: 9:00 to 16:00  
  Closed: Irregular closing days  
  Admission: 400 yen

  The Nagase family were doctors for the Maeda lords in [Ishikawa Prefecture](/list/e1222.html) before relocating to Ogimachi. Their farmhouse turned museum exhibits some medical tools and gifts from the Maeda family. The upper floors display many tools for farming and raising silkworms.
* 

  Myozenji Temple and House

  Hours: 8:30 to 17:00 (Apr to Nov), 9:00 to 16:00 (Dec to Mar)  
  Closed: Irregular closing days  
  Admission: 400 yen (includes entry to both temple and house)

  Myozenji Temple, which is unique for its thatched roof rather than the typical tiled roof seen on most temples, is connected to the Myozenji-ke farmhouse next door where the priest of the temple lives. Admission to the house includes admission to the temple hall.
* 

  Shirakawa-go no Yu

  Hours: 7:00 to 21:00 (entry until 20:00)  
  Closing: Thursdays, and 2nd and 4th Wednesdays  
  Admission: 800 yen

  The Shirakawa-go no yu is a combined [minshuku](e2026.html) and [bath house](e2074.html), which offers [hot spring](e2292.html) bathing to the visitors of Ogimachi.

### Attractions outside Ogimachi

* 

  Toyama-ke House

  Hours: 9:00 to 16:00 (from 10:00 December to March)  
  Closed: Wednesdays (or Tuesday if Wednesday is a [holiday](e2062.html)) and Saturdays  
  Admission: 300 yen

  Located about 15 minutes by car outside of Ogimachi, this old farmhouse now stands as a museum displaying typical period life. The farmland around the house continues to be worked by local farmers.

Ogimachi is the transport hub of the [Shirakawa-go](e5951.html) region, where the [bus](e2366.html) lines from [Takayama](e5900.html), [Nagoya](e2155.html), [Kanazawa](e2167.html), [Toyama](e7500.html) and [Takaoka](e7525.html) meet. The Shirakawago Bus Terminal is located at the entrance to the village center. Ogimachi is small and can be easily explored on foot.

[How to get to and around Shirakawa-go and Gokayama](e5953.html)