---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5506.html
title: Best cherry blossom spots in Matsuyama (Matsuyama Hanami Spots)
description: A list of popular hanami (cherry blossom viewing) spots in Matsuyama.
keywords: matsuyama, sakura, cherry, blossom, blossoms, hanami, spot, spots
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1732
char_count: 11393
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:03:44
---

Below is a list of [Matsuyama](e5500.html)'s most popular spots for cherry blossom viewing ([hanami](e2011.html)), including the typical timing for best viewing in the average year and japan-guide.com ratings. See also our nationwide list of [famous cherry blossom spots](e2011_where.html).

* 

  [Matsuyama Castle••](e5501.html)

  Early April

  9:00 to 17:00, 520 yen

  Hundreds of cherry trees are planted on the grounds of [Matsuyama Castle](e5501.html) in the center of the city. The view from the castle tower over the trees and the city beyond is remarkable.
* 

  Dogo Park•

  Early April

  Free entry; always open

  Dogo Park is a pleasant public park in [Dogo Onsen](e5502.html) on the outskirts of Matsuyama with many attractive spots for holding [hanami](e2011_how.html) parties.
* 

  Matsuyama Sogo Park•

  Early April

  Free entry; always open

  Matsuyama Sogo Park is located on a hill about one kilometer west of Matsuyama Station. The spacious park has wide lawns for picnics, a huge jungle gym playground, and many benches for people to sit around. At the top of the hill stands a multi-storied observation deck in the shape of a Western fortress with great views over the city and [Matsuyama Castle](e5501.html) in the distance. The park's hundreds of [cherry trees](e2011.html) typically bloom a few days later than the ones in central Matsuyama.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

[How to get to and around Matsuyama](e5504.html)