---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5160.html
title: Sendai Port
description: Visitor guide for the tourist-friendly seaside recreation and shopping area at Sendai Port, featuring an aquarium and Kirin's Sendai beer brewery
keywords: sendai, port, sendaiko
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1889
char_count: 12869
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:07:20
---

Sendai Uminomori Aquarium

As [Sendai](e5150.html)'s city center is located several kilometers inland, it is easy to forget that the city is actually a major port city. The Sendai port (仙台港, Sendaikō) area serves as an important shipping hub for the [Tohoku](/list/e1102.html) region and hosts many [industrial](e2465.html) warehouses and factories.

Besides the commercial hustle and bustle, the waterside location has recently been developed as a recreational area and now attracts locals and tourists with a nice [aquarium](e2425.html), a [beer](e2037_beer.html) factory and large [shopping](e2450.html) complexes, including an [outlet mall](e2451.html).

* 

  Sendai Uminomori Aquarium

  Hours: vary, typically 9:00 to 17:30  
  Admission: 2400 yen  
  No closing days

  Opened in 2015, the Sendai Uminomori Aquarium is one of the largest and most modern [aquariums](e2425.html) in the [Tohoku Region](/list/e1102.html). Alongside impressive tanks, dolphin and seal performances and a penguin enclosure, the aquarium features sealife from around the [Miyagi](/list/e1206.html) coastline, including exhibits dedicated to oysters, a local seafood staple. English explanations are included with many of the exhibits.
* 

  Kirin Beer Factory Sendai

  Tours start between 10:00 and 14:50  
  Admission: 500 yen  
  Duration: 80 minutes  
  Closed: Mondays (or next day if Mon is a [public holiday](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html) holidays

  Like Kirin's other [beer](e2037_beer.html) breweries, the Sendai one offers factory tours. Tours are entirely in [Japanese](e621.html) (though useful English pamphlets and signage are available) and give an informative look at the beer-making process. After the 50 minute tour, adults can participate in beer tasting and attend a brief lesson in how to properly pour an optimal glass. The facility also has a restaurant. Advance reservations are recommended and can be made [online](#section_links).
* 

  Mitsui Outlet Park Sendai Port

  Hours: 10:00 to 20:00

  The Mitsui Outlet Park Sendai Port is the largest [outlet shopping center](e2451.html) in the [Tohoku Region](/list/e1102.html). The outlet hosts over 100 [stores](e2450.html) and [restaurants](e2036.html), including several large international name brand stores, some selling their products at slightly lower prices than other retail stores in Japan.

The closest train station to Sendai Port is Nakanosakae Station on the JR Senseki Line (20 minutes, 200 yen one way from Sendai Station, every 10 minutes). From Nakanosakae Station, it is a 15-30 minute walk to most of the port's attractions.

[How to get to and around Sendai](e5151.html)