---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5529.html
title: Ozu Old Town
description: Visitor guide to Ozu's old town, which preserves alleys from the Edo, Meiji and Showa periods.
keywords: ozu, old town, japan
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 340
char_count: 2347
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:29:53
---

The city of [Ozu](e5525.html) grew as a [castle town](e2422.html) during the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868). Like many other cities, it underwent a period of westernization during the [Meiji Period](e2130.html) (1868-1912). Today, the old town around the city center retains an atmosphere reminiscent of bygone decades, with nostalgic stone-paved alleys and old-fashioned houses of both Edo and Meiji Period [architecture](e2111.html). Many old merchant houses and [samurai](e2127.html) residences remain in the district, although they are not open to the public.

A castle wall lines the river north of the old town for several hundred meters, stretching from [Ozu Castle](e5527.html) in the west all the way to [Garyu Sanso Villa](e5528.html), a reminder of the extent of the castle's influence during the feudal age. Just south of the walls is the **Ozu Redbrick Hall**, a remnant of Meiji western architecture. The building was originally a commercial bank, but today functions as a gallery and resting place for tourists.

A stone's throw away from the Redbrick Hall is the Omoide Warehouse, a small charming museum showcasing retro exhibits from the Showa Period (1926-1989), such as old Coca Cola bottles, household items and toys. The warehouse is part of the **Pokopen Yokocho Alley** which recreates the ambiance of an arcade in the 1950s. The alley is lined with nostalgic wooden-framed stalls offering small items, desserts, beverages and games. However, the stands [are open only on most Sundays](#section_admission).

Omoide Warehouse

Ozu's old town can be accessed in a 20 minute walk from Iyo-Ozu Station.

[How to get to and around Ozu](e5526.html)