---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5308.html
title: Okurayama Observatory and Olympic Museum
description: Visitor guide for the Okurayama Observatory, the former olympic ski jump stadium and the Sapporo Olympic Museum.
keywords: sapporo, okurayama, observatory, olympic, olympics, ski, jump, museum
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1853
char_count: 12592
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:13:01
---

Important Notice:

The Sapporo Olympic Museum is closed for renovations from November 10, 2025 to January 16, 2026.

The 90 meter ski jump competitions of the [Winter Olympics 1972](e2260.html) were held in the Okurayama Ski Jump Stadium (大倉山ジャンプ競技場, Ōkurayama Janppu Kyōgijō). Nowadays, when the stadium is not being used for world cup or other ski jump events, the Okurayama Observatory at the top of the hill can be accessed via a chair lift for spectacular views of [Sapporo](e2163.html).

At the foot of the jump hill stands the Sapporo Olympic Museum with exhibits about the [1972 Sapporo Winter Olympics](e2260.html) and winter sports in general, including ski jump, bobsled and biathlon. The museum has a variety of fun sport simulation games that cover events like ski jump, speed skating and hockey. The games can be played without any additional costs beyond the museum's entrance fee.

Sapporo seen from the Okurayama Ski Jump Stadium

### By bus

Take the Tozai Subway Line to Maruyama Koen Station (5 minutes, 210 yen, frequent departures from Odori Station). From there, hourly JR [buses](e2015.html) go all the way to the ski jump (Ōkurayama Janppu Kyōgijō bus stop, 大倉山ジャンプ競技場), while several other buses stop at the Sapporo Seishin Jōshi Gakuin bus stop (札幌聖心女子学院) or Ōkurayama Janppu Kyōgijō Iriguchi bus stop (大倉山ジャンプ競技場入口), from where it is a ten minute walk uphill to the ski jump. In both cases, the bus ride takes about ten minutes and costs 240 yen one way. The JR buses are covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and [Hokkaido Rail Pass](e2361_01.html).

### By taxi

A [taxi](e2021.html) ride from Sapporo Station to the ski jump takes about 20 minutes and costs around 2500-3000 yen.

[How to get to and around Sapporo](e5306.html)