---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5806.html
title: Adachi Museum of Art
description: Visitor guide for the Adachi Museum of Art near Matsue City, Shimane prefecture, known for Japan's most beautiful garden.
keywords: adachi, art, museum, garden
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1639
char_count: 10529
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:30:04
---

The Adachi Museum of Art (足立美術館, Adachi Bijutsukan) was founded by Adachi Zenko, a locally born businessman, in 1970 as a way of combining his passions for Japanese [art](e639.html) and [garden](e2099.html) design. He hoped that viewing the gardens and artwork together would expand peoples' appreciation and interest in Japanese art.

The Adachi Museum of Art is best known for its award winning [garden](e2099.html). It has been named the best garden in Japan annually since 2003 by the "Journal of Japanese Gardening". The garden can be enjoyed at anytime of the year and shows a different character depending on the season. It cannot be entered, but only be viewed from the museum building.

In addition to the gardens, the Adachi Museum of Art also houses a collection of nearly 1300 twentieth century paintings and artworks which are rotated seasonally. There is also a permanent exhibit of paintings by Yokoyama Taikan, as well as a [ceramics](e2329.html) exhibit.

The Adachi Museum of Art is located one hour outside of [Matsue](e5800.html): take a train from Matsue Station to Yasugi Station (20 minutes, 420 yen by local or rapid train, covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html)), from where there are two free shuttle buses per hour to the museum (20 minutes). [Limited express trains](e2016.html) from [Okayama](e5700.html) also stop at Yasugi Station before continuing to Matsue.

[How to get to and around Matsue](e5805.html)