---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5213.html
title: Gotemba Premium Outlets
description: About the Gotemba Premium Outlets near Hakone.
keywords: japan, travel, shopping, hakone, Gotemba, outlet, mall, shops
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2050
char_count: 13520
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:44:22
---

The Gotemba Premium Outlets are Japan's most popular [outlet mall](e2451.html), located in Gotemba City at the base of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html), not far from [Hakone](e5200.html). The mall features around 300 stores and restaurants, a food court, a 50 meter high Ferris wheel, a hotel and a [public hot spring bath](e2074.html).

The stores found at the Premium Outlets are the outlets of internationally known brands of fashion, sports, food, household goods and electronics, and range from everyday items to luxury goods. The prices are not ridiculously cheap, but they are better on average than what you will find at regular retail shops in Japan. Overall it is a nice place for a day of shopping, with a lot of variety and reasonable prices.

The Gotemba Premium Outlets are located on the outskirts of Gotemba City not far from [Hakone](e5200.html). A free shuttle bus operates every 15 minutes between the mall and JR Gotemba Station, stopping at the Tomei-Gotemba IC (interchange or expressway exit) along the way.

### From Hakone

Odakyu Highway Bus operates one bus every 1-2 hours from Hakone to Gotemba Station (bus line W), from where you can catch the free shuttle bus to the outlets. Major stops in Hakone include Togendai at the shores of [Lake Ashinoko](e5201.html) (40 minutes, 1080 yen to Gotemba) and Sengoku (25 minutes 730 yen to Gotemba). Buses are bound for [Shinjuku](e3011.html) and covered by the [Hakone Free Pass](e2358_008.html) between Hakone and Gotemba.

When coming from Hakone-Yumoto, take a Togendai-bound Hakone Tozan Bus on line T to Sengoku (25 minutes, 950 yen, covered by the [Hakone Free Pass](e2358_008.html)), where you can transfer to the Odakyu Hakone Highway Bus (see above).

Alternatively, Hakone Tozan Bus operates hourly, direct buses between Yunessun, Gora Station and the Gotemba Premium Outlets (bus lines S, L and M, 45 minutes, 1120 yen from Gora Station, covered by the [Hakone Free Pass](e2358_008.html)).

### From Tokyo by bus

There are 1-6 direct [buses](e2366.html) per day each from [Tokyo Station](e3037.html), [Shinjuku Station](e3011.html), [Shibuya Station](e3007.html), [Ikebukuro Station](e3038.html) and [Ueno Station](e3019.html) to the outlets. The one way trip takes about 80-120 minutes and costs around 1800-2200 yen. Some of the buses require advance reservations.

Alternatively, frequent buses from Tokyo and Shinjuku stations in direction of [Hakone](e5200.html) and [Shizuoka](e6350.html) stop at the Tomei-Gotemba IC along the way, from where it is a short, free shuttle bus ride to the outlets. The one way trip to Gotemba takes about 100 minutes and costs around 1600-1700 yen. Less frequent buses to Gotemba also depart from [Haneda Airport](e2430.html) and [Narita Airport](e2027.html).

For more detailed bus information, check out the [official website](https://www.premiumoutlets.co.jp/en/gotemba/access/). Online reservations for some of the buses can be made through [Willer](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/shizuoka/gotemba/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184) and [Japan Bus Online](https://japanbusonline.com/en/AreaSearch2/3130000/4221007/?afcd=MDI=).

### From Tokyo by train

The fastest method is to take the Mount Fuji Limited Express from Odakyu Shinjuku Station to Gotemba Station and transfer to the free shuttle bus to the outlets. The trip takes around 100 minutes and costs about 3000 yen, but there are departures only once about every five hours. Since this train partly travels over non-JR railway tracks, [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) holders must pay a supplement fee when using this train.

Alternatively, from Tokyo or Shinjuku Station take a train on the JR Tokaido Line or JR Shonan Shinjuku Line respectively to Kozu Station and transfer to the JR Gotenba Line to Gotemba Station (about 150 minutes, 1980 yen, fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html)). From there take the free shuttle bus to the outlets.

The cheapest method is to take the Odakyu Main Line from Shinjuku Station to Shin-Matsuda Station, walk to nearby JR Matsuda Station, and take the JR Gotemba Line to Gotemba Station (1310 yen, about 2 hours one way). Then use the free shuttle bus to the outlets.

[How to get to and around Hakone](e5206.html)