---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5224.html
title: Komagatake Ropeway
description: Visitor guide for the Komagatake Ropeway in Hakone.
keywords: komagatake, ropeway, hakone, mountain, hakoneen, tourist, shrine
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1762
char_count: 11741
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:43:53
---

The Hakone Komagatake Ropeway (箱根駒ヶ岳ロープウェー), not to be confused with the [Hakone Ropeway](e5223.html), leads from the shore of [Lake Ashinoko](e5201.html) to near the Komagatake peak of Mount Hakone. The ropeway is not covered by the [Hakone Free Pass](e2358_008.html), although discounted.

When visibility is good, panoramic views of Lake Ashinoko and [Mount Fuji](e2172.html) can be enjoyed from the ropeway's upper station. A short walk away, on the actual peak of Komagatake, stands the Hakone Shrine Mototsumiya, the original [Hakone Shrine](e5204.html), whose main site is now located at the more easily accessible shores of Lake Ashinoko in Moto-Hakone.

Hakone Shrine Mototsumiya

Several [hiking trails](e2427.html) lead from the Komagatake summit down to the shores of [Lake Ashinoko](e5201.html), [Owakudani](e5203.html) and Sounzan Station. The trails lead mostly through the forest with limited panoramic views of the surrounding scenery and can get closed when there is [volcanic](e2327.html) activity in the area.

Several more attractions are located in the area around the ropeway's lower station at the shores of Lake Ashinoko, known as Hakone-en. These include some Prince Hotel-affiliated lodgings, a [golf course](e2082.html) and a few minor attractions such as a small aquarium and petting zoo.

Hiking trail on Mount Hakone

### By bus

The lower ropeway station at Hakone-en is served by infrequent Odakyu buses and two Izuhakone buses per hour from Togendai to Hakone-en (20 minutes, 470 yen one way). From Moto-Hakone, there are infrequent Odakyu buses (10 minutes, 200 yen one way) and even less frequent Izuhakone buses (15 minutes, 380 yen one way) to Hakone-en. Odakyu buses are covered by the [Hakone Free Pass](e2358_008.html), but Izuhakone buses are not.

### By boat

Only one of the two cruise companies on [Lake Ashinoko](e5201.html), Hakone Pleasure Cruise, serves Hakone-en port where the Komagatake Ropeway is located. It can be reached from Moto-Hakone or Hakone-machi in 15-25 minutes and for 1000 yen one way. Note that these boats are not covered by the [Hakone Free Pass](e2358_008.html).

### On foot

It is about two kilometers or a 30 minute walk from Moto-Hakone to the lower ropeway station.

[How to get to and around Hakone](e5206.html)