---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5776.html
title: How to get to and around Bitchu-Takahashi\: Access, Transportation and Orientation
description: About access, orientation and transportation around Takahashi.
keywords: takahashi, access, orientation, transportation, guide, travel, bitchu-takahashi, bus, train
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 366
char_count: 2782
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:32:48
---

### How to travel to Takahashi

#### By train

Takahashi lies north of [Okayama](e5700.html) along the train line to [Matsue](e5800.html). From [Okayama Station](e5703.html) take either a Yakumo [limited express](e2016.html#category) (35 minutes, about 2000 yen, hourly departures) or a local train (one hour, 860 yen, 1-2 trains per hour) along the JR Hakubi Line and get off at Bitchu-Takahashi Station. The trip is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html).

#### By Sunrise Izumo night train

Japan's last surviving [night train](e2356.html), the Sunrise Izumo, connects [Tokyo](e2164.html) with [Matsue](e5800.html) and [Izumo](e5830.html) every night, stopping in Bitchu-Takahashi Station along the way. The overnight journey between Tokyo and Bitchu-Takahashi takes about nine hours and costs around 15,000 yen one way if using the most basic, carpeted nobi-nobi compartment. Other compartments are considerably more expensive. Advance reservations are mandatory.

The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) fully covers the journey in nobi-nobi compartments, but it covers only the [base fare](e2359_001.html) if using [another compartment](e2356.html), in which case the express supplement and compartment fee (totaling around 10,000 yen or more) have to be paid separately.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](/e/e2196.html).

[Takahashi](e5775.html) is a compact town. Its [old town](e5778.html) is in easy walking distance of Bitchu-Takahashi Station and can be explored entirely **on foot**. The [castle](e5777.html), however, is located on top of a steep mountain north of the town. While good walkers will enjoy walking there, others will prefer taking a [taxi](e2021.html) to the castle's parking lot from where it is a shorter hike to the castle. Public transportation unfortunately deteriorated badly during the coronavirus pandemic, and there are now no more convenient, easy-to-use buses to reach the tourists sites in the city center.