---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5932.html
title: Gujo Town
description: Visitor guide for the attractions around the town of Gujo Hachiman.
keywords: gujo, hachiman, gifu, spring, water, canal, museum, museums
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 653
char_count: 4786
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:20:28
---

[Gujo Hachiman](e5930.html) offers visitors a look at the traditional, small town atmosphere of rural Japan. Best known for its summer festival and its historic waterways, the town has many small museums and galleries, as well as temples and shrines, including [Jionzenji Temple](e5935.html) with its beautiful Zen garden, which earn Gujo Hachiman its "Little Kyoto" nickname.

### Museums

* 

  Gujo Hachiman Hakurankan City Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Admission: 540 yen  
  Closed: December 24 to January 2

  Demonstrations of Gujo's festival dances are held several times a day. The rest of the museum has displays about the town's water system, history and crafts.
* 

  Rakugeikan Medical Museum

  Hours: 10:00 to 16:00  
  Admission: 220 yen  
  Closed: Mondays (or next day in case of [public holiday](e2062.html)), Dec 27 to Jan 4

  Built in 1904, this building used to serve as Gujo's hospital. It now houses a collection of old medical instruments and objects.
* 

  Saito Museum

  Hours: 10:00 to 16:00  
  Admission: 300 yen  
  Closed: January, February and Thursdays

  Saito Museum has a collection of [tea ceremony](e2096.html) artifacts with explanations in Japanese only. Entrance to the museum includes a discount at the adjacent cafe.
* 

  Yudokan Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00  
  Admission: 400 yen  
  Closed: January, February and Thursdays

  Yudokan exhibits the work of a local artist Masao Mizuno. Mizuno combines paintings, folded paper and wood carvings, as in the beautiful [origami](e2100.html) display of the town's famous dance festival.
* 

  Omodakaya Local History Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 19:00  
  Closed: Irregular closing days  
  Admission: 250 yen

  This private collection displays some artifacts and articles of local artist Ryujin Mizuno. Paintings and drawings of koi (carp) are predominant. The museum is located in a storehouse in the back of a souvenir shop.
* 

  Anyoji Temple Treasure House

  Hours: 10:00 to 16:00  
  Closed: January, February and Thursdays  
  Admission: 300 yen

  This one room building displays objects, such as [Buddhist](e2055.html) paintings and scriptures, that are important to [Anyoji Temple](#anyoji). The Treasure House is located on the [temple](e2058.html) grounds.

### Waterway attractions

* 

  Sogisui Source

  At this most famous source of Gujo's water system, pools of water are divided into four sections each for exclusive use. The first pool for drinking, the second for washing [rice](e2043.html), the third for washing vegetables and the fourth for cleaning tools.
* 

  Igawa Lane

  Igawa Lane begins behind the Tourist Center and runs for about 200 meters along a small water canal through a residential neighborhood. The water runs quickly through the canal, providing an opportunity to watch the koi (carp) swimming against the current.
* 

  Yanaka Lane

  Koi are also visible swimming through the canal on this small side street in the center of town. Located between the Saito, Yudokan and Omodakaya Museums, Yanaka Lane offers a nice break for tourists visiting these museums.

### Temples and shrines

* 

  [Jionzenji Temple](e5935.html)

  See the [Jionzenji Temple page](e5935.html) for admission details.

  This Zen [temple](e2058.html) was founded in the 16th century and rebuilt several times. Inside [Jionzenji](e5935.html) is the beautiful Tetsuso-en Zen garden, which can be seen from the temple's main hall.
* 

  Anyoji Temple

  This large [temple](e2058.html) is notable for its [treasure house](#treasure), where artifacts important to the temple are stored. The temple itself is impressive in size, but somewhat marred by the paved parking lot extending up to the main hall steps.

The town center of Gujo is compact and its attractions within walking distance of each other.

[How to get to and around Gujo Hachiman](e5931.html)