---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5102.html
title: Zuiganji Temple
description: Visitor guide to Zuiganji, a Zen temple in Matsushima.
keywords: zuiganji, temple, matsushima
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1441
char_count: 9621
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:30:45
---

Main Hall

Zuiganji (瑞巌寺) is one of the [Tohoku Region](/list/e1102.html)'s most famous and prominent [Zen](e2055.html) temples, and is well known for its beautifully gilded and painted sliding doors ([fusuma](e2007.html)). Zuiganji was originally founded in 828 as a temple of the [Tendai sect](e2055.html) and was converted into a Zen temple during the [Kamakura Period (1192-1333)](e2133.html). After years of decline, Zuiganji was restored to prominence by the feudal lord Date Masamune who rebuilt it as his family temple in [1609](e2128.html).

The approach to the temple's main hall proceeds along a long, straight path flanked by cedar trees (many of them were unfortunately damaged by the salt water of the [2011 tsunami](e5027.html) and had to be felled). An alternate path detours off to the right of the entrance and by a number of caves that were used in the past for meditation and today contain statues.

Approach to the temple before the felling of many of the trees

The temple's **Main Hall** emerges at the end of the approach path. It can be entered by visitors who then follow a circular course through the complex to view the various rooms with their celebrated paintings on the sliding doors. Attached to the hall is the **Kuri**, the Zen kitchen where the meals were prepared in the past. Both buildings are designated national treasures.

Across from the Kuri is the Seiryuden, also known as **Zuiganji Art Museum**. The museum exhibits some of the temple's treasures, including its golden [sliding doors](e2007.html) and artifacts of the Date Clan, such as a life-sized wooden stature of Date Masamune clothed in his armor.

Kuri, the Zen kitchen

Zuiganji is a few steps from the pier of [Matsushima](e5100.html), and a 5-10 minute walk from JR Matsushima Kaigan Station.

[How to get to and around Matsushima](e5105.html)