---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5354.html
title: Mount Hakodate (Hakodateyama)
description: Visitor guide for Mount Hakodate, the city mountain of Hakodate.
keywords: hakodate, mount, yama, hakodateyama
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1696
char_count: 11401
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:12:17
---

Mount Hakodate (函館山, Hakodateyama) is a 334 meter high, wooded mountain at the southern end of the peninsula on which much of central [Hakodate](e5350.html) is located. On clear days and nights, in particular, the views from the mountain are spectacular and included among Japan's three best night views alongside those from [Nagasaki](e2162.html)'s [Mount Inasa](e4412.html) and [Kobe](e2159.html)'s [Mount Rokko](e3557.html).

Facilities at the summit, which is accessible by ropeway, [bus](e2015.html) or [car](e2024.html), include free observation platforms, souvenir shops, a cafe and a restaurant.

The views 30 minutes after sunset are said to be best

### By ropeway

The Hakodateyama Ropeway departs from the [Motomachi District](e5351.html). The ropeway's lower station can be reached in a 10 minute walk from the Jujigai tram stop (5 minutes, 210 yen from Hakodate Station) or by direct Hakodate Bus from Hakodate Station (10 minutes, 250 yen, 1-2 buses/hour in the evenings). The ropeway costs 1800 yen for a round trip or 1200 yen one way. It operates every 15 minutes from 10:00 to 22:00 (until 21:00 from October to mid April).

### By direct bus

From late April to mid November, there are multiple direct [buses](e2015.html) per hour between Hakodate Station and the summit of Mount Hakodate in the evenings (30 minutes, 500 yen one way). The buses are operated by Hakodate Bus and covered by the day passes for trams and buses.

### By car

There is a toll-free road to the summit of Mount Hakodate that is open from mid April to mid November. However, the road gets closed to individual [car traffic](e2024.html) in the evenings between 17:00 and 22:00 (16:00 to 21:00 in October and November).

[How to get to and around Hakodate](e5355.html)