---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5478.html
title: Benesse House
description: Visitor guide for the Benesse House on Naoshima.
keywords: naoshima, benesse, house, museum, art
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 537
char_count: 3655
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:19:36
---

Benesse House - Museum

The Benesse House is a [contemporary art](e2115.html) museum and resort hotel on [Naoshima Island](e5475.html). The complex is the centerpiece of the Benesse Corporation's art facilities on the island and consists of four buildings: the Museum, Oval, Park and Beach, all designed by star architect Ando Tadao. Each building features its own unique artworks and guest rooms.

The main attraction of the Benesse House is its art museum, located on a hill overlooking the sea. On display are works by many different artists from both Japan and abroad, which were inspired by the natural surroundings of [Naoshima](e5475.html) and the architecture on the island. Overnight guests staying at the Museum and Oval buildings can enjoy 24 hour access to the museum.

Naoshima's iconic pumpkin

In addition to the art displayed in the museum and in the guest rooms, there are nearly twenty art pieces located on the lawns and [beaches](e2461.html) around the Benesse House, including the famous pumpkin, which was recreated after the original one had been damaged in a 2021 [typhoon](e2117.html). Many of these can be found along the shore and cliffs below the museum and have been specifically designed to integrate into the natural surroundings in which they are placed.

The Benesse House has other facilities including restaurants, cafes, shops and a spa, which are open to staying guests as well as day visitors. Hotel guests have the added privileges of exclusive restaurants and after-hours access to the museum. The Benesse House is the top level accommodation on the island, and room rates start from around 40,000 yen per night.

The Oval, one of the guest room buildings of the Benesse House

There are 1-3 [buses](e2015.html) per hour from Miyanoura Ferry Terminal via Honmura to the Tsutsujiso bus stop at the east gate of the Benesse House (10 minutes, 100 yen), from where you can walk (10-15 minutes) or take a free shuttle bus to the Benesse House (5 minutes). Alternatively, the museum is about a three kilometer [bicycle](e2210.html) ride (15-25 minute) or walk (45-60 minutes) from the ferry terminal.

From the Benesse House it is just a few minutes on the free shuttle bus to either the [Lee Ufan Museum](e5482.html) or the [Chichu Art Museum](e5477.html). It is also possible to walk between the museums (10 and 15 minutes respectively).

[How to get to and around Naoshima](e5476.html)