---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5375.html
title: Upopoy National Ainu Museum
description: Visitor guide for Upopoy, a center about Ainu culture, that includes the National Ainu Museum.
keywords: upopoy, ainu, national, museum, park, shiraoi, hokkaido
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1959
char_count: 13262
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:13:17
---

The National Ainu Museum

Upopoy (ウポポイ, "singing together" in Ainu language) is the foremost place in Japan to learn about the [Ainu](e2244.html), the indigenous people of northern Japan. Located in Shiraoi City in [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html), not far from [Noboribetsu](e6750.html), the park consists of the National Ainu Museum and several other facilities to learn about and experience Ainu culture. It stands next to Lake Poroto.

The National Ainu Museum consists of a video theater and permanent exhibition explaining Ainu culture and traditional lifestyle. In addition, there are rotating special exhibitions. In the surrounding lakeside park there are also three buildings where dance and music performances are held and where visitors can partake in [hands-on experiences](e2424.html) related to Ainu cuisine, music and crafts. There are also several reconstructed Ainu houses that can be entered. Traditional ceremonies are performed there occasionally, and visitors can put on costumes.

Reconstructed Ainu houses built along Lake Poroto

The museum is located in Shiraoi, a neighboring town of [Noboribetsu](e6750.html). It is about 100 kilometers south of Sapporo on the main railway line that connects [Sapporo](e2163.html) with [Hakodate](e5350.html). The museum is a 10-15 minute walk east from Shiraoi Station.

### By train

The one way journey from [Noboribetsu](e6750.html) by [local train](e2016.html) takes about 25 minutes and costs 470 yen. There is a connection every 1-2 hours.

From [Sapporo](e2163.html), most [limited express](e2016.html) in the direction of Muroran and [Hakodate](e5350.html) stop at Shiraoi. The one way journey from Sapporo takes just over an hour and costs about 4000 [yen](e2196.html) one way by limited express train or about two hours and 2240 yen if done by [local trains](e2016.html).

### By bus

Some [highway buses](e2366.html) between [Sapporo](e2163.html) (Sapporo Station) and [Noboribetsu Onsen](e6750.html) and between [New Chitose Airport](e2435.html) and Noboribetsu Onsen used to make a stop at Upopoy along their way; however most of them have been out of service since the coronavirus pandemic with the exception of a single daily bus between the airport, Upopoy and Noboribetsu Onsen (45 minutes, 850 yen one way between the airport and Upopoy).

Alternatively, [local buses](e2015.html) between Noboribetsu and Tomakomai stop at the Shiraoi Kotan-mae (白老コタン前) bus stop, a short walk from Upopoy, along their way. The one way trip from Noboribetsu Onsen takes 45 minutes and costs 1000 yen. There are buses every 2-3 hours.