---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5509.html
title: Asuka no Yu Bath
description: Visitor guide for the Asuka no Yu, a public bath in Dogo Onsen, Matsuyama City.
keywords: asuka no yu, asukanoyu, bath, bathhouse, matsuyama, dogo, onsen, honkan, bekkan, asuka, no, yu, asukanoyu, spa, hot, springs, spring
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1765
char_count: 11595
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:11:45
---

Asuka no Yu

Asuka no Yu (飛鳥乃湯泉) is a [public bath](e2074.html) in [Matsuyama](e5500.html)'s [Dogo Onsen](e5502.html) district. Opened in 2017, it is located 150 meters west of the [Dogo Onsen Honkan](e5507.html) and offers an elegant experience with its baths on the first floor and [tatami](e2007.html)-covered relaxation rooms on the second floor.

The exterior of Asuka no Yu is inspired by the ancient [Asuka Period](e2131.html) (538-710) because Dogo Onsen was mentioned already in Japan's oldest historical records which date back to the Asuka Period. Inside, the gender-separated bathing areas offer stone baths as well as outdoor baths surrounded by hinoki wood panels.

The large communal rest area on the second floor at Asuka no Yu

For an additional fee, visitors can enjoy the large tatami-covered communal area on the second floor where tea and sweets are served. The second floor also offers a few private rooms and a private bath. A rental [yukata](e2103.html) is provided to customers using the second floor, and rental towels are included for those using the private rooms.

A few steps from the Asuka no Yu stands another [public bath](e2074.html) house, the **Tsubaki no Yu**. Opened in 1953 and loved by the locals, Tsubaki no Yu is the most economical bath house in Dogo Onsen, offering simple, gender-separated indoor baths.

Nearby Tsubaki no Yu

Asuka no Yu is a three minute walk from the [Dogo Onsen](e5502.html) tram terminal.

[How to get to and around Matsuyama](e5504.html)