---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5002.html
title: Motsuji Temple
description: Visitor guide for Motsuji Temple, a temple of the Tendai sect in Hiraizumi, which has one one of Japan's few remaining Pure Land Gardens.
keywords: motsuji, temple, hiraizumi, garden, pure, land, tendai
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 374
char_count: 2821
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 17:33:32
---

Motsuji's Pure Land Garden

Motsuji (毛越寺, Mōtsūji) was once a large and important [temple](e2058.html) of the [Tendai](e2055.html) sect in [Hiraizumi](e5000.html), consisting of numerous buildings. As with [Chusonji](e5001.html), Motsuji's fortune rose and fell with the fortune of the Fujiwara family. Today, Motsuji is best known for its [garden](e2099.html), one of the few remaining [pure land gardens](e2099_types.html) in Japan.

Pure land gardens were a popular garden style during the [Heian Period](e2132.html), attempting to recreate the [Buddhist](e2055.html) concept of the pure land or "Buddhist paradise". Like all pure land gardens, Motsuji's garden is centered around a large pond. The garden is best enjoyed by walking along the path that leads about 500 meters around the pond's circumference.

Hondo

When walking around Motsuji, visitors will encounter many sign posts indicating the sites of former buildings. The foundations of these buildings have been left intact, allowing one to imagine the grandeur of Motsuji as it stood before. These same foundations inspired the celebrated haiku poet Basho to compose one of his most famous poems, in which he reflects on the impermanence of glory.

Motsuji still has a number of standing buildings that will interest visitors. Among these are the Hondo, the [temple](e2058.html)'s principal hall; the Cultural Assets Repository, a treasure house displaying Motsuji's historical and cultural artifacts; and the Kaizando, a building commemorating the third head of the Tendai sect and the three Fujiwara lords who ruled over [Hiraizumi](e5000.html).

From Hiraizumi Station, Motsuji can be reached in a three minute ride by the [Hiraizumi Loop Bus](e5005.html) or in a ten minute walk.

[How to get to and around Hiraizumi](e5005.html)