---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5411.html
title: Isamu Noguchi Garden Museum
description: Visitor guide for the Isamu Noguchi Garden Museum in Takamatsu.
keywords: isamu, noguchi, museum, art, takamatsu
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1879
char_count: 12502
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:09:05
---

Museum Reception Building

Isamu Noguchi (1904-1988) was a prominent Japanese American artist, sculptor and landscape designer. Although born, educated and based in the United States, Isamu Noguchi maintained a workshop in Japan and spent months at a time working there towards the end of his nearly 65 year long career. Noguchi's major works include bridges at the [Hiroshima Peace Park](e3400.html), [Moerenuma Park](e5313.html) in [Sapporo](e2163.html), the garden at the UNESCO headquarters in Paris and an influential line of modern furniture designs among others.

Noguchi's Japanese home and workshop were located in Mure, a small town near central [Takamatsu](e5400.html) that is famous for its stone masonry. After Noguchi's death, the workshop was converted into the Isamu Noguchi Garden Museum which exhibits both his art and his work and living space. The museum can be seen on guided tours [by prior appointment only](#section_admission).

The tour takes about one hour and starts with a visit to Noguchi's workshop, a relocated [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868) storehouse, laid out with his tools as if he were about to enter. In the yard outside the workshop are almost 150 stone sculptures, many of which are unfinished. A dozen finished sculptures are exhibited in a large [Meiji Period](e2130.html) (1868-1912) warehouse nearby which Noguchi relocated and restored. "Energy Void", the largest of the artwork on display, is a 3.6 meter tall sculpture of black Swedish granite that the building was literally built around.

After visiting the workshop and warehouse, the tour continues across the street to Isamu Noguchi's home, a relocated [Edo Period](e2128.html) merchant residence which the artist redesigned to suit his taste and comfort while retaining traditional Japanese aesthetics. Finally, visitors are taken up to the gardens on the hill behind his home which he designed for his 80th birthday.

Outside the walls of the museum

### By Kotoden train

From Takamatsu-Chikko Station take a train to Kawaramachi Station (5 minutes) and change to the Kotoden Shido Line to Yakuri Station (20 minutes). The entire journey takes about 30 minutes and costs 390 yen. There are connections every 10-20 minutes. From Yakuri Station it is a 20-25 minute walk to the museum (not straight-forward to find). Alternatively, there is a [taxi](e2021.html) stand next to Yakuri Station, and a ride takes five minutes and costs around 850 yen.

### By JR train

Take a local train from Takamatsu Station to Furutakamatsu Minami Station. The one way trip takes 20 minutes, costs 330 yen and there are one or two departures per hour. From the station it is a 30-40 minutes walk to the museum (not straight-forward to find). Alternatively, a [taxi](e2021.html) ride takes about ten minutes and costs around 1200 yen.

### By bus

From Takamatsu Station take Kotoden Bus line number 73 bound for Aji Onsen (庵治温泉) and get off at Inori Iwa Yoichi Koen-mae (祈り岩与一公園前). The one way ride takes about 35 minutes, costs 590 yen, and there is about one [bus](e2015.html) per hour. The museum is a 5-10 minute walk from the bus stop.

[How to get to and around Takamatsu](e5404.html)