---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5054.html
title: Morioka Downtown
description: Visitor guide for central Morioka, inclduing the castle ruins park and the Bank of Iwate.
keywords: morioka, iwate, castle, ruins, park, sakura, historical, buildings
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 350
char_count: 2567
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:36:54
---

Bank of Iwate Red Brick Building

Downtown [Morioka](e5050.html) is about a 15 minute walk from Morioka Station and where many of the city's attractions, restaurants and entertainment district are located. The city is relatively flat, and the streets are neatly laid out, making it easy to navigate on foot.

One of the main attractions in central Morioka is **Morioka Castle Ruins Park**, the former grounds of Morioka Castle. The castle was demolished in 1874 and displays only the walls of the former circles of defense but no surviving or reconstructed castle buildings. Also known as Iwate Park, it is now an attractive recreation area and a popular [cherry blossom spot](e2011_where.html), with the season usually peaking around mid to late April.

Stone walls at Morioka Castle

A stone's throw from the castle park is the former **Bank of Iwate**, an eye-catching red brick building which was completed in 1911. Eagle-eyed visitors may be reminded of the station building on Tokyo Station's [Marunouchi](e3037.html) side, and in fact, both buildings were designed by the same [architect](e2111.html). It is possible for tourists to view the interior of the building.

Not far from both the former bank and castle park stands the unique **Rock-breaking Cherry Tree (Ishiwarizakura)**, an approximately 400 year old [cherry tree](e2011.html) growing out of a granite boulder on the premises of the Morioka Courthouse.

Ishiwarizakura Tree

[How to get to and around Morioka](e5051.html)