---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5402.html
title: Shikoku Mura
description: Visitor guide for Shikoku Mura, an open-air museum in Takamatsu.
keywords: shikoku, mura, village, open, air, museum, takamatsu
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1671
char_count: 11266
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:09:10
---

Replica of an Iya Valley vine bridge

Shikoku Mura (四国村, lit. "Shikoku Village") is an [open air museum](e2421.html) situated at the base of [Yashima](e5405.html). This pleasant hillside park preserves and exhibits traditional buildings and structures that have been relocated here from all over [Shikoku Island](/list/e1107.html).

Among the exhibited buildings, which mainly date from the [Edo](e2128.html) and [Meiji](e2130.html) periods, are a number of farmhouses and storehouses, as well as various traditional workshops that produced goods such as sugar and soya sauce.

Other structures exhibited include bridges, a lighthouse and a [kabuki](e2090.html) theater with open-air seating, which occasionally hosts performances. One of the most popular attractions is a vine suspension bridge, made out of vine and wood (and reinforced by steel cables), similar to the ones found in the [Iya Valley](e7825.html) in neighboring [Tokushima Prefecture](/list/e1234.html).

Shikoku Mura also has a small art gallery showing paintings and sculpture by modern artists from around the world. The gallery has a nice view over the surrounding city and occasionally holds live performances and special events.

Kabuki Theater

Shikoku Mura is at the base of [Yashima](e5405.html), and can be reached from Takamatsu Station by either Kotoden or JR trains:

### By Kotoden

Take a train from Takamatsu-Chikko Station to Kawaramachi Station (5 minutes, frequent departures) and transfer to the Shido Line. Get off at Kotoden Yashima Station (15 minutes, 3 trains/hour). The entire trip takes about 30 minutes and costs 360 yen. From the station, it is a five minute walk to Shikoku Mura.

### By Japan Railways

Take a local train from JR Takamatsu Station in the direction of Tokushima to Yashima Station (15 minutes, 280 yen, 1-2 trains/hour). From the station, it is a 15 minute walk to Shikoku Mura.

[How to get to and around Takamatsu](e5404.html)