---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5036.html
title: Kesennuma
description: Travel guide for Kesennuma, a port city in Miyagi Prefecture that was heavily damaged by the 2011 Tsunami.
keywords: kesennuma, city, travel, sightseeing, guide, tsunami, shark
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 913
char_count: 6255
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:25:00
---

Kesennuma Port from Mount Anbasan

Kesennuma (気仙沼) is one of the bigger cities along the [Sanriku Coast](e5025.html) with a large fishing port. It is one of the country's largest bonito and swordfish processors. Kesennuma was hit badly by the [2011 Tsunami](e5027.html) which damaged several of the city's districts, carried multiple large ships inland, and left the local fishing industry in ruins.

All of the stranded ships were removed quickly save one, the 60 meter long Kyotoku Maru 18, which remained as a monument for over two years in a residential neighborhood nearly a kilometer from the waterfront. The ship was eventually dismantled in late 2013 after a local referendum showed overwhelming support for its removal.

The Kyotoku Maru 18 in Kesennuma's Shishiori district in April 2011

In the meantime, Kesennuma has been recovering from the disaster, and the city offers tourists a variety of attractions, especially seafood-related ones.

* 

  [Fish Market•](e5036_fish.html)

  The best timing for viewing the action is between 6am and 8am  
  Closed: Sundays and a few other days (see [calendar](http://www.kesennuma-gyokyou.or.jp/html/calendar.html))  
  Admission: Free

  The fascinating action at the [Kesennuma Fish Market](e5036_fish.html) can be observed by tourists from a long observation deck. The [market](e2452.html) is divided into an area for small fish and other seafood and an area for large fish, including tuna and sharks. Shark fin is a specialty of Kesennuma, and the local fishing industry also processes all the sharks' other parts into various products.
* 

  [Umi no Ichi](e5036_fish.html)

  Shops: 8:00 to 17:30 (until 17:00 from October to April)  
  Restaurants: 11:00 to 20:00  
  Museum: 9:00 to 17:00 (until 18:00 on weekends/holidays from May to Sep)  
  Closed: Some Wednesdays from January to June

  [Umi no Ichi](e5036_fish.html) is a building adjacent to the [fish market](#market), where tourists can purchase seafood products and other local souvenirs or try some of the fresh seafood in restaurants. Furthermore, the complex features a museum about sharks as well as an ice aquarium.
* 

  [Rias Ark Museum](e5037.html)

  Hours: 9:30 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Mondays, Tuesdays and the day after [holidays](e2062.html) (except weekends)  
  Admission: 700 yen

  The [Rias Ark Museum](e5037.html) is a contemporary art and local history museum in the hills overlooking Kesennuma. The museum serves as a sort of repository of local history and culture with exhibits that focus on the local fishing industry and daily life from days past, as well as artwork by local artists. A new permanent exhibit shows items and photographs collected from the [2011 Tsunami](e5027.html).
* 

  Kesennuma Reconstruction Memorial Park

  This is a park built on top of a hill in central Kesennuma and displays inscriptions of the names of the local victims of the 2011 disaster, as well as a monument. The park allows for sweeping views over the bay and city center of Kesennuma which were devastated by the tsunami. The park can be reached by car or via walking trails.
* 

  Mount Anbasan

  Mount Anbasan is a 239 meter high mountain that overlooks Kesennuma from just north of the city's center. It is possible to walk or drive to a parking lot about halfway up the mountain from where there are nice views out over the city. Several more viewpoints are located further up the mountain and at its summit that is reached in about a 15 minute climb from the parking lot.
* 

  Pier 7

  Just across the street from K-Port, Pier 7 is an attractive waterfront facility housing cafes, a restaurant and community space. Sightseeing cruises of Kesennuma Bay depart from here.
* 

  [Kesennuma City Memorial Museum•](e5036_school.html)

  Hours: 9:30 to 17:00 (until 16:00 from October to March)  
  Closed: Generally Mondays ([more details](e5036_school.html))  
  Admission: 600 yen

  The [Kesennuma City Memorial Museum](e5036_school.html) consists of the ruins of a former high school that is located on a peninsula eight kilometers south of the city center and was damaged by the [tsunami](e5027.html). The school was turned into an excellent museum which opened to the public in spring 2019. Some of the school's rooms have been preserved in the way they were left by the tsunami.
* 

  Cape Iwaisaki

  Not far from the Kesennuma City Memorial Museum (see above), the pine tree covered Cape Iwaisaki juts out from the rocky coastline. The approach to the cape starts off in the forest, but the trees soon open up to reveal beautiful views of the surrounding coastline as well as a blowhole that periodically erupts along the water. A statue of [sumo](e2080.html) wrestler Hidenoyama Raigoro, an [Edo Period](e2128.html) Yokozuna from Kesennuma, stands at the cape pointing out to sea.

### By train

From Ichinoseki Station (150 minutes, about 13,000 yen by [JR Tohoku Shinkansen](e2018_tohoku.html) from [Tokyo](e2164.html)), take the JR Ofunato Line to Kesennuma (85 minutes, 1170 yen one way, one train every 1-2 hours). The trip is covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html) and [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html).

### By bus

Iwateken Kotsu operates 2-4 [buses](e2015.html) a day between Ichinoseki and Kesennuma. The one way trip takes about 75 minutes and costs 1090 yen.

[How to get to and around the Sanriku Coast](e5026.html)