---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5201.html
title: Lake Ashinoko (Lake Ashi)
description: Visitor guide for Lake Ashinoko, the caldera lake of Hakone.
keywords: hakone, ashinoko, lake, ashi, no, ko
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1970
char_count: 13050
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:44:16
---

Lake Ashinoko (芦ノ湖, Ashinoko) was formed in the caldera of Mount Hakone after the volcano's last eruption 3000 years ago. Today, the lake with [Mount Fuji](e2172.html) in the background is the symbol of [Hakone](e5200.html). The lake's shores are mostly undeveloped except for small towns in the east and north and a couple of lakeside resort hotels.

The best views of the lake in combination with [Mount Fuji](e2172.html) can be enjoyed from Moto-Hakone (a few steps south from the sightseeing boat pier), from the [Hakone Detached Palace Garden](e5207.html) and from the sightseeing boats cruising the lake.

Mount Fuji, Hakone Shrine and the lake viewed from Moto-Hakone

Note however, that clouds and poor visibility often block the view of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html), and you have to consider yourself lucky if you get a clear view of the mountain. Visibility tends to be better during the colder seasons of the year than in summer, and in the early morning and late afternoon hours.

Two companies, Hakone Sightseeing Boats and Hakone Pleasure Cruise, operate boats from Moto-Hakone and Hakone-machi at the lake's southern shores to Togendai and Kojiri at the lake's northern end (25-40 minutes, 1700 yen one way) and Hakone-en at the eastern shore (15-30 minutes, 1000 yen one way). The [Hakone Free Pass](e2358_008.html) is valid on the pirate ship-shaped Hakone Sightseeing Boats but not on the Hakone Pleasure Cruises, which serve Hakone-en and Kojiri.

Sightseeing Cruise

### From Odawara and Hakone-Yumoto

Frequent [buses](e2015.html) connect Odawara via Hakone-Yumoto with Moto-Hakone and Hakone-machi at the southern end of Lake Ashinoko. The one way journey from Odawara takes about 50 minutes and costs 1510 yen. From Hakone-Yumoto it takes about 35 minutes and costs 1210 yen. The [Hakone Free Pass](e2358_008.html) is valid on Hakone Tozan buses (bus line H) but not on Izuhakone buses (bus line Z).

There is also a frequently served Hakone Tozan Bus line from Odawara via Hakone-Yumoto to Togendai at the northern end of Lake Ashinoko (bus line T). The one way journey from Odawara takes about 50 minutes, costs 1620 yen and is covered by the [Hakone Free Pass](e2358_008.html). From Hakone-Yumoto it takes about 35 minutes and costs 1330 yen.

A slow and scenic way of approaching Lake Ashinoko from Odawara or Hakone-Yumoto is taking the [Hakone Tozan Railway](e5202.html) to Gora, followed by a cablecar and [ropeway](e5223.html) ride to Togendai at the northern end of of the lake. From Togendai one can continue by sightseeing boat to Moto-Hakone or Hakone-machi. The whole journey is covered by the [Hakone Free Pass](e2358_008.html).

### From Mishima

[Buses](e2015.html) operate hourly from Mishima Station to Hakone-machi and Moto-Hakone (bus line N, operated by Numazu Tozan Tokai Bus). The one way journey from Mishima to Moto-Hakone takes about 50 minutes and costs 1280 yen. The [Hakone Free Pass](e2358_008.html) is valid on these buses.

### From Gotemba

Buses operate every 1-2 hours between Gotemba Station and the northern and eastern shores of Lake Ashinoko (bus line W, operated by Odakyu Highway Bus). The one way journey from Gotemba to Togendai takes about 40 minutes and costs 1080 yen. The [Hakone Free Pass](e2358_008.html) is valid on these buses.

### From Atami

There are [buses](e2015.html) (operated by Izuhakone Bus) from [Atami Station](e6317.html) to Hakone-machi every hour. The one way journey takes about 60 minutes and costs 1290 yen. The [Hakone Free Pass](e2358_008.html) is not valid on Izuhakone buses.

[How to get to and around Hakone](e5206.html)