---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5901.html
title: Hida Folk Village (Hida no Sato)
description: Visitor guide for Hida Folk Village (Hida no Sato), an open air museum in Takayama.
keywords: Hida, Folk, Village, Hida, no, Sato, takayama, open-air, museum
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2101
char_count: 14109
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:32:12
---

Hida no Sato

Hida Folk Village (飛騨の里, Hida no Sato) is an [open air museum](e2421.html) exhibiting over 30 traditional houses from the Hida region, the mountainous district of [Gifu Prefecture](/list/e1220.html) around [Takayama](e5900.html). The houses were built during the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868) and were relocated from their original locations to create the museum in 1971.

In a village-like atmosphere, the museum features buildings such as a former village head's house, logging huts, storehouses and a number of gassho-zukuri farmhouses, which are named after their steep thatched roofs resembling a pair of hands joined in prayer ("gassho"). They were moved here from nearby [Shirakawago](e5950.html), where gassho-zukuri houses are the reason for the region's [World Heritage](e2251.html) status.

Former village head's house

All exhibited buildings at the Hida Folk Village are carefully preserved and open for exploration. They have unique wooden architecture and exhibit tools and utensils used in everyday life in the past. Interestingly, the buildings' indoor fireplaces are lit every morning, making this outstanding open air museum a treat not only for the eyes but also for the nose.

A short walk from the Hida Folk Village is the **Hida Takayama Crafts Experience Center**, where [workshops](e2424.html) on local handicrafts are given. For a fee of 800 to 3000 yen, visitors can learn how to make crafts such as beaded key chains, sarubobo dolls (a popular local doll), ceramic cups or glass wind chimes, and take them home as souvenirs. Workshops last 15-60 minutes, and reservations are not required.

Inside a gassho-zukuri house

The Hida Folk Village is a 30 minute walk or 10 minute bus ride from Takayama Station in the opposite direction of the city center. The [Sarubobo Bus](e5908.html) operates about twice per hour and costs 100 yen per ride or 500 yen for a 1-day pass.

[How to get to and around Takayama](e5908.html)