---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5006.html
title: Geibikei (Geibi Gorge)
description: Visitor guide for Geibikei, a spectacular gorge outside of Hiraizumi that can be viewed on boat tours.
keywords: geibikei, geibi, gorge, ravine, hiraizumi
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 499
char_count: 3353
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 17:33:34
---

The Geibikei (猊鼻渓) is a spectacular gorge outside [Hiraizumi](e5000.html) in the interior of [Iwate Prefecture](/list/e1204.html) - not to be confused with the nearby Genbikei Gorge. It is enjoyed by taking a calm, 90 minute ride on a flat-bottomed boat navigated by a boatman with a pole. Pleasant natural scenery with impressive, tall cliffs and rock formations can be viewed along the way.

The tour leads about one kilometer into the gorge and back. At the turning point, passengers leave the boat for 15-20 minutes to walk a few hundred meters further into the gorge. There they can view a large rock, shaped like a lion's nose, after which the gorge was named. Furthermore, tourists can buy small lucky stones and try to throw them into an opening in the cliff on the opposite side of the river.

Trying their luck at hitting the small opening across the river

The scenery along the gorge is attractive at any time of the year, but particularly so during the [fall color](e2014.html) season which usually peaks in late October and early November and around mid May when the wisteria flowers are usually in bloom. Carps and ducks are among the animals living in the gorge. It is possible to buy special snacks and feed them from the boat.

Tours depart roughly once per hour. Each boat can seat several dozen passengers who are supposed to take off their shoes before sitting onto the mat on the floor of the boat. During the ride, the boatman provides explanations in [Japanese](e621.html) and performs a local folk song. A couple of souvenir shops with restaurants are located next to the boat pier.

Early morning tour

### By train

The gorge is a short walk from Geibikei Station on the JR Ofunato Line. From [Hiraizumi](e5000.html), take the JR Tohoku Line to Ichinoseki (10 minutes, 1-2 trains per hour) and transfer to the JR Ofunato Line for Geibikei (30 minutes, every 1-2 hours). The one way fare is 590 yen and covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html) and [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html).

### By bus

From late April to late November, there are a few direct [bus](e2015.html) round trips between [Hiraizumi](e5000.html) Station and the Geibikei Gorge (except on Tuesdays and Wednesdays). The one way trip takes 35 minutes and costs 800 yen.

[How to get to and around Hiraizumi](e5005.html)