---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5401.html
title: Ritsurin Koen (Ritsurin Park)
description: Visitor guide for Ritsurin Koen, a Japanese-style landscape garden in Takamatsu.
keywords: ritsurin, koen, park, garden, takamatsu
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1673
char_count: 11229
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:09:20
---

Ritsurin Koen (栗林公園) is a landscape [garden](e2099.html) in Takamatsu City, built by the local feudal lords during the early [Edo Period](e2128.html). Considered one of the best gardens in Japan, it is often suggested that Ritsurin Koen deserves a spot on the list of the "three most beautiful gardens of Japan" alongside [Kanazawa](e2167.html)'s [Kenrokuen](e4200.html), [Mito](e6200.html)'s [Kairakuen](e6201.html), and [Okayama](e5700.html)'s [Korakuen](e5701.html).

The spacious park features many ponds, hills, trees and beautiful pavilions divided into a Japanese-style garden in the south and Western-style garden in the north. The gardens are set in front of wooded Mt. Shiun which serves as a wonderful background and great example of [borrowed scenery](e2099_elements.html) in Japanese garden design.

Inside the park are a number of facilities, including a folk museum, shops and a few resthouses where you can take a break and enjoy some refreshments amidst the beauty of the garden. Of particular note is the Kikugetsu-tei teahouse in the southwest part of the gardens where, for a small fee, you can enter and enjoy some tea on its verandas overlooking the ponds.

Ritsurin Koen lies two kilometers south of JR Takamatsu Station and Takamatsu Castle. The [shopping arcades](e5407.html) run nearly the entire way from there to the garden. Alternatively, it is most easily accessed by Kotoden or JR train.

### By Kotoden

Take the Kotohira Line from Takamatsu-Chikko Station to Ritsurinkoen Station (7 minutes, 200 yen, every 15 minutes), from where it is a ten minute walk to the park's main entrance.

### By Japan Railways

Take a local train from JR Takamatsu Station in the direction of Tokushima to Ritsurinkoen-Kitaguchi Station (5 minutes, 240 yen, 2 trains/hour). From there, the park's north gate can be reached in a five minute walk.

[How to get to and around Takamatsu](e5404.html)