---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5601.html
title: Kochi Castle
description: Visitor guide for Kochi Castle.
keywords: kochi, castle, kochijo
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1638
char_count: 10609
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:50:05
---

Kochi Castle (高知城, Kōchijō) is one of just twelve [Japanese castles](e2296.html) to have survived the fires, wars and other catastrophes of the post feudal age. It was first constructed between 1601 and 1611, but most of its main buildings date from 1748 when they were reconstructed after a fire.

The [castle](e2296.html) used to be the seat of the Yamauchi lords, who ruled over the surrounding region, then known as Tosa, during the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868). The castle buildings have since been designated "important cultural properties" and house local treasures and historical objects.

A unique feature of [Kochi](e5600.html)'s castle is that its main tower (donjon) was not only used for military purposes, but also as a residence. In most other castles, the lords usually resided in separate palace buildings rather than in the castle keep. The castle's wooden interior maintains the appearance of its [Edo Period](e2128.html) origins, and the lookout point from the castle tower's top floor offers a nice view of [downtown](e5605.html).

View from the castle keep

Kochi Castle is located a short walk from Kochijo-mae tram stop. The [tram](e5603.html) ride from Kochi Station takes 15 minutes, costs 230 yen and requires a transfer of trams at Harimayabashi. The castle can also be reached in a 20 minute walk from JR Kochi Station or a 10 minute walk from the [downtown area](e5605.html) around Harimayabashi.

[How to get to and around Kochi](e5603.html)