---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5430.html
title: Shodoshima Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Shodoshima, the second largest island of the Seto Inland Sea.
keywords: shodoshima, travel, guide, tourist, tourism, visitor, information, sightseeing, kagawa, island, seto, inland, sea
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 393
char_count: 3137
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 11:40:05
---

Shodoshima (小豆島, Shōdoshima) is the second largest island in the [Seto Inland Sea](e5445.html) and one of the first islands born to the [gods](e2056.html) in the creation myth of Japan. The name literally means "small bean island", which technically refers to the azuki bean but today could more fittingly refer to the soy bean or olive as the island has traditionally been a producer of [soy sauce](e5434.html) and now is even better known for its [olive plantations](e5432.html).

Shodoshima attracts visitors with its Mediterranean atmosphere, offering [beaches](e2461.html), resorts, coastal scenery and a mountainous interior with one of Japan's most celebrated gorges, the [Kankakei Gorge](e5435.html). The island is also known as the filming location of a [popular movie](e5433.html).

Shodoshima serves as one of the venues for the [Setouchi Triennale](e5410.html) art festival. Some permanent art installations from past festivals, including several outdoor installations, can also be viewed outside of the festival periods. They are spread across the island, with most of them concentrated around the port towns along the southern coast.

* [](/e/e5440.html)

  1

  Contemporary Art

  [Teshima Island•](/e/e5440.html)

  Another island with intriguing contemporary art.

  4.4

  

  45
* [](/e/e5433.html)

  2

  Museum

  [Movie Village](/e/e5433.html)

  Former movie set of a popular Japanese movie.

  4.2

  

  43
* [](/e/e5435.html)

  3

  Nature

  [Kankakei Gorge](/e/e5435.html)

  Spectacular gorge in the mountainous interior.

  4.0

  

  65
* [](/e/e5436.html)

  4

  Zoo/Wildlife

  [Monkey Park](/e/e5436.html)

  Wild monkeys live in this park in the mountains.

  4.0

  

  31
* [](/e/e5438.html)

  5

  Nature

  [Around the Island](/e/e5438.html)

  Other attractions around the island.

  3.8

  

  99
* [](/e/e5434.html)

  6

  Museum

  [Soya Sauce](/e/e5434.html)

  A local food product for centuries.

  3.7

  

  45
* [](/e/e5432.html)

  7

  Food and Drink

  [Olive Park](/e/e5432.html)

  Park on the site of Japan's first olive plantation.

  3.2

  

  91
* [](/e/e5437.html)

  8

  Temple

  [Great Kannon](/e/e5437.html)

  A fifty meter tall white statue of Kannon.

  3.2

  

  28

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Shodoshima](/e/e5430.html)

[Getting to and around Shodoshima](/e/e5431.html)
[See access info](/e/e5431.html)