---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5952.html
title: Overnight at a gassho-zukuri house
description: Visitor guide for staying at a gassho-zukuri farmhouse in Shirakawa-go.
keywords: gokayama, shirakawago, shirakawa, ogimachi, gassho, gasshozukuri, house, houses
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 876
char_count: 6019
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:21:05
---

Dining room of a gassho-zukuri farmhouse

More than a dozen gassho-zukuri farmhouses in and around [Ogimachi](e5951.html) are now functioning as [minshuku](e2026.html), family-run, Japanese-style lodgings. An overnight stay at one of these farmhouses is a highly recommended experience, as it is a great way to experience a traditional Japanese family home and get more intimate with gassho-zukuri buildings.

In the traditional style, guest rooms come with [tatami mat](e2007.html) floors and a low table. During the night, [futon](e2007.html) are spread out to sleep on. [Baths](e2002.html) and [toilets](e2003.html) are typically modern but shared. Staying guests should expect a simple stay without the amenities of Western-style hotels.

A guest room

While equipped for a convenient, modern lifestyle, the old, wooden farmhouses still transmit a very rustic atmosphere. For example, an open fireplace, known as an irori, is found in the common dining room and used for heating and sometimes cooking.

An overnight stay at one of these farmhouses costs around 8,000 to 20,000 yen per person and includes dinner and breakfast which feature local dishes. Farmhouse stays in Shirakawago have become very popular, and it has become difficult to make reservations. Reservation attempts can be made through the [local tourist association](https://shirakawa-go.gr.jp/en/stay/).

Cooking in an irori

See [how to get to Shirakawa-go and Gokayama](e5953.html).