---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5955.html
title: Ainokura Village
description: Visitor guide for Ainokura, a village to see gassho-zukuri farmhouses in Gokayama.
keywords: gokayama, shirakawago, shirakawa, ogimachi, gassho, gasshozukuri, house, houses
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1269
char_count: 8592
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:20:59
---

Set far back in the valley, Ainokura (相倉) is the most remote village in the Gokayama region. It is also the largest of the villages with nearly 20 gassho-zukuri farmhouses. Many of them remain private residences, although a few have been converted into restaurants, museums, and [minshuku](e2026.html), which allow for an [overnight stay at a farmhouse](e5952.html).

Ainokura, along with [Suganuma](e5954.html) and [Ogimachi](e5951.html), was declared a [UNESCO World Heritage Site](e2251.html) in 1995. Because it is less developed and harder to get to than Ogimachi, Ainokura is quieter and sees less tourist traffic, but offers similar attractions.

The Ainokura townscape

Being so remote, Ainokura, along with the rest of Gokayama, has been able to maintain a lot of its traditional culture. This can be seen in folk dances and music, which use a number of unique, traditional instruments. For example, the sasara, an instrument made of over a hundred wooden clappers strung together, is symbolic of the region and a popular souvenir.

The region around Ainokura is well known for its [washi paper](e2424_washi.html). Legend has it that the technique of paper making was brought here from [Kyoto](e2158.html) at the end of the [Heian Period](e2132.html) when survivors of the Taira Clan escaped to this region after their defeat by the Minamoto Clan. There are several washi shops and workshops in Ainokura and surroundings, where you can observe local artisans making washi paper as well as [try your hand at making some yourself](e2424_washi.html).

* 

  Folklore Museum

  Hours: 8:30 to 17:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 300 yen (500 yen for both museums)

  This gassho-zukuri farmhouse has been converted into a small museum displaying daily life in the Gokayama region during the [Edo Period](e2128.html).
* 

  Traditional Industry Museum

  Hours: 8:30 to 17:00  
  Closed: Infrequent, irregular closures  
  Admission: 300 yen (500 yen for both museums)

  Just a few steps from the Folklore Museum, this former farmhouse has displays on washi paper making and other industries of the region.
* 

  Viewpoint

  The viewpoint above Ainokura is a five to ten minute walk up the mountain. The trail begins behind the information building at the parking lot, goes through a few fields and connects with a small road. If you continue up the hill on the road you will be rewarded with nice aerial views of the village.
* 

  Washi Workshop Hall

  Hours: 9:00 to 16:30  
  Closed: Tuesdays (except [national holidays](e2062.html)) and from December to April  
  Admission: from 600 yen (cost for short washi-making activity)

  The Gokayama region has been well known for its [washi paper](e2424_washi.html) since the art was brought here by Taira Clan refugees from Kyoto. At this store and workshop you can watch how washi paper is made and try your hand at making some yourself (no prior reservation required).

### Attractions outside of the village center

* 

  Murakami-ke House

  Hours: 9:00 to 16:00 (entry until 15:40)  
  Closed: Tuesdays and Wednesdays (except [national holidays](e2062.html)) and from mid December through February  
  Admission: 400 yen

  Four kilometers down the road from Ainokura, this is another well preserved gassho-zukuri farmhouse. The interior can be visited and exhibits some regional instruments, including a sasara.

Daytime visitors are asked to vist Ainokura only between 8:30 and 17:00 and refrain from visiting the villages in the early mornings and in the evenings.

### By bus

Ainokura is a stop along the [bus](e2015.html) route between [Shirakawago](e5951.html) and [Takaoka](e7525.html) ([see timetable](/bus/gokayama.html)). The one way bus ride from Shirakawago to Ainokura ("Ainokura-guchi" bus stop) takes 45 minutes and costs 1300 yen. From Shin-Takaoka Station, it takes about one hour and costs 1000 yen.

### By car

From Ogimachi, Ainokura can be reached in about 45 minutes along National Route 156. You can cut travel time by a few minutes by taking the [Tokai-Hokuriku Expressway](e2354.html) between Shirakawago and Gokayama IC (580 yen expressway tolls). From Gokayama IC, Ainokura is reached in about 15 minutes. Parking costs 500 yen.

[How to get to and around Shirakawa-go and Gokayama](e5953.html)