---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5005.html
title: How to get to and around Hiraizumi\: Access, Transportation and Orientation
description: How to get to and around Hiraizumi.
keywords: hiraizumi, travel, access, orientaion, transportation, how, to, get, directions, bus, train
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 455
char_count: 3398
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 17:33:30
---

### How to get to Hiraizumi from Tokyo

Take the [JR Tohoku Shinkansen](e2018_tohoku.html) from [Tokyo](e2164.html) to Ichinoseki Station (130-150 minutes) and then the JR Tohoku Main Line from Ichinoseki to [Hiraizumi](e5000.html) (8 minutes). The entire one way trip costs around 13,000 yen and is covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html) and [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html).

[Yamabiko](e2018_tohoku.html) trains along the Tohoku Shinkansen travel directly from Tokyo to Ichinoseki Station in about 2.5 hours, but you may be able to save about 20 minutes by taking a faster [Hayabusa](e2018_tohoku.html) train from Tokyo to [Sendai](e5150.html) and transfer to a Yamabiko train there. Note that seat reservations are mandatory on Hayabusa trains, while Yamabiko trains also carry some unreserved seats.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](/e/e2196.html).

[Hiraizumi](e5000.html)'s main attractions are quite spread out and best accessed by [bus](e2015.html) or rental [bicycle](e2210.html), although, good walkers could cover them on foot.

The **Hiraizumi "Run Run" Loop Bus** connects Hiraizumi Station with all the sites of interest in central [Hiraizumi](e5000.html). It loops every 30 minutes from Hiraizumi Station to [Motsuji](e5002.html), [Chusonji](e5001.html), [Takadachi Giekeido](e5003.html) and back to the station. One ride costs 200 yen, while a day pass for unlimited rides is available for 550 yen. In 2025, the bus runs only on weekends and [public holidays](e2062.html) between April 12 and November 30.

In addition, regular [buses](e2015.html) connect Ichinoseki Station via Hiraizumi Station with Chusonji Temple approximately once per hour. The bus line to [Takkoku no Iwaya](e5004.html) was discontinued with the coronavirus pandemic, rendering the temple inaccessible by public transportation.

[Hiraizumi](e5000.html) is also easily explored by [bicycle](e2210.html). A rental shop is located adjacent to Hiraizumi Station and charges 700 yen for four hours, 300 yen per additional hour or 1300 yen for the entire day. Electric bicycles are offered at slightly higher fees. It is closed in winter.

A [rental car](e2024.html) is not necessary for covering Hiraizumi's central attractions, but can be convenient when also visiting more outlying attractions such as [Takkoku no Iwaya](e5004.html) and the Genbikei and [Geibikei](e5006.html) Gorges. There is no rental car outlet in central Hiraizumi, but most major companies have outlets around Ichinoseki Station.

Hiraizumi Loop Bus