---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5052.html
title: Koiwai Farm
description: Visitor guide for Koiwai Farm, a farm outside of Morioka, Japan.
keywords: koiwai, farm, morioka, nojo, bokujo
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 435
char_count: 3129
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:36:50
---

Koiwai Farm with Mount Iwate as its backdrop

Koiwai Farm (小岩井農場, Koiwai Nōjō) is a [dairy farm](e2463.html) located near [Morioka](e5050.html) in [Iwate Prefecture](/list/e1204.html). It was founded in 1891 during the [Meiji Period](e2130.html) by three leading [industrialists](e2465.html), Ono Gishin, Iwasaki Yanosuke and Inoue Masaru, and the brand name Koiwai is made up by the first [kanji characters](e2046.html) of each man's family name. They managed to turn barren volcanic land into one of Japan's most famous farms.

Koiwai Farm spans about 3000 hectares, of which two thirds are covered with a cedar forest while the remaining third is the actual farmland, including pastures, farm buildings and some facilities for visiting tourists.

Makiba Park area

The main area for tourists is **Makiba Park**, a spacious area which requires an entrance fee and offers restaurants and souvenir shops selling Koiwai products, wide grass fields and various activities, such as a mini obstacle course, archery, mini golf and horse riding.

A 15-20 minute walk through the woods brings visitors to the historical center of the farm, named the **Kamimaru Cowshed** area, where the farm's former head office, several cowsheds and two brick silos can be viewed, many of which date back to the [early 1900s](e2130.html). Cows are still using several of the facilities. Among the buildings is a small museum about the farm's history.

Koiwai Farm is open from mid April to mid November. During the winter, the farm organizes [illuminations](e2304.html) (from late November to mid January) and some [snow](e2265.html)-related activities.

Kamimaru Cowshed area

Koiwai Farm lies about 15 kilometers or a 20-30 minute [car](e2024.html) ride west of central [Morioka](e5050.html). [Buses](e2015.html) connect the farm with Morioka Station from mid April to mid November (30 minutes, 730 yen one way, 2-3 buses/day).

Alternatively, the farm can be reached in an 80-90 minute walk or a ten minute [taxi](e2021.html) ride (about 2500 yen one way) from Koiwai Station along the JR Tazawako Line (10 minutes, 240 yen one way from Morioka, one train every 1-2 hours).

[How to get to and around Morioka](e5051.html)