---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5356.html
title: Onuma Quasi National Park (Onuma Koen)
description: Visitor guide for Onuma Quasi National Park near Hakodate, Hokkaido.
keywords: onuma, national, park, quasi, hakodate, koen
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1720
char_count: 11639
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:12:10
---

Designated as a "quasi national park" and located only 20 kilometers north of [Hakodate](e5350.html), Onuma Park (大沼公園, Ōnuma Kōen) is known for its picturesque, island dotted lakes and majestic [volcano](e2327.html), Mount Komagatake.

Onuma Park can be easily visited in either a day trip from [Hakodate](e5350.html) or on a stop over on a journey between Hakodate and [Sapporo](e2163.html), since most limited express trains between the two cities stop at Onuma Koen Station, the park's centrally located railway station, along the way.

The park's most attractive area is located between the two lakes Onuma (large lake) and Konuma (small lake) and can be explored entirely on foot. Attractive walking courses let you explore the lakes' peninsulas and islands, several of which are connected with each other by small bridges, in easy 15-60 minute walks.

It is also possible to rent [bicycles](e2210.html) (typically 500 [yen](e2196.html)/hour or 1000 yen/day). A cycling course leads around Lake Onuma (about 10 kilometers), but follows the main road rather than the lakeshore for most of the distance. It is a nice way to explore the area, nevertheless.

Furthermore, during the warmer seasons there are sightseeing boat tours offered every 40 minutes, lasting about 30 minutes (1460 [yen](e2196.html) per person). Other activities to be enjoyed in Onuma Park include canoeing, tennis, [golf](e2082.html), fishing and camping.

### By JR train

From Hakodate Station, Onuma Koen Station can be reached in around 30 minutes by [limited express](e2016.html) train (1840 yen, seat reservations are mandatory) or in 40 minutes by [local](e2016.html) train (680 yen, all unreserved). Most limited express trains from [Hakodate](e5350.html) to [Sapporo](e2163.html) make a brief stop at Onuma Koen Station.

### By car

Onuma Park can be reached from central [Hakodate](e5350.html) by [car](e2024.html) in about 30 minutes along National Route 5, a toll-free road.

[How to get to Hakodate](e5355.html)