---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5930.html
title: Gujo Hachiman Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Gujo Hachiman, a pretty town in the mountains of Gifu Prefecture.
keywords: gujo, hachiman, travel, guide, tourist, tourism, sightseeing, visitor, visit, information, gifu, town, spring, water
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 366
char_count: 2778
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:50:11
---

Gujo Hachiman (郡上八幡, Gujō Hachiman) is a small, riverside town in [Gifu Prefecture](/list/e1220.html), known for its pristine waterways and its distinctive summer dance festival. The town was founded in the 16th century following the construction of [Hachiman Castle](e5934.html).

Gujo's waterways function in much the same capacity as they did in the 1600s. Walking through [town](e5932.html) provides visitors with a look at the many canals, fountains and waterways that are still used for washing rice an vegetables. Townspeople cooperate to keep the canals clean and the water fresh; as a result of their efforts, Gujo's drinking water is a source of local pride.

Gujo Odori is a large summer dance [festival](e2063.html) held in Gujo Hachiman. The festival started over 400 years ago and continues today for a period of 31 festival nights between July and September. During the four days of [Obon](e2286.html) in mid August, dances continue all through the night.

Gujo is also a leading producer of [food replicas](e5933.html) in Japan. Many of the food replicas, used by restaurants to decorate their windows and inform patrons of their dishes, are produced here. Visitors can try their hand at creating wax shrimp tempura in some of the workshops.

* [](/e/e5932.html)

  1

  Neighborhood

  [Gujo Town•](/e/e5932.html)

  About the town's many smaller attractions.

  3.6

  

  143
* [](/e/e5933.html)

  2

  Shopping

  [Food Replicas•](/e/e5933.html)

  Gujo is a center of food replica production.

  3.4

  

  76
* [](/e/e5936.html)

  3

  Nature

  [Otaki Cave](/e/e5936.html)

  Limestone cave outside of central Gujo.

  3.9

  

  31
* [](/e/e5935.html)

  4

  Temple

  [Jionzenji Temple](/e/e5935.html)

  Zen temple with beautiful garden.

  3.5

  

  41
* [](/e/e5934.html)

  5

  Castle

  [Hachiman Castle](/e/e5934.html)

  Mountaintop castle overlooking the town.

  3.3

  

  108

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Gujo](/e/e5930.html)

[Getting to and around Gujo-Hachiman](/e/e5931.html)
[See access info](/e/e5931.html)