---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5413.html
title: Ogijima Island
description: Travel guide for Ogijima Island, a small island off the coast of Takamatsu.
keywords: ogijima, ogi, jima, shima, island, seto, inland, sea, naikai
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1679
char_count: 11237
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:09:23
---

Ogijima (男木島), brother island of nearby [Megijima](e5412.html), is found in the [Seto Inland Sea](e5445.html), a slow-paced 40 minute [ferry](e2355.html) ride from [Takamatsu](e5400.html). Home to around 150 people, the island is just two kilometers long and one kilometer wide.

Ogijima is essentially a set of mountains poking out of the sea, with a single village and ferry terminal on the southern end and a **lighthouse** at the northern end separated by a forested interior. Visitors can walk to the lighthouse and its small accompanying museum in about 30 minutes from the ferry terminal on a pleasant, narrow road through the fields and forest.

Ogijima's only **village** is huddled up on the mountain slope overlooking the harbor. Visitors can explore the charming village and walk among the wooden houses which are connected by a confusing network of narrow lanes. Halfway up the mountain, overlooking the rest of the village, is the Toyotamahime Shrine, which people come to pray for a safe delivery in childbirth.

Ogijima is one of the venues of the [Setouchi Triennale](e5410.html) art festival. Outside of the festival, about a dozen permanent art pieces from previous festivals can be viewed on the island, ranging from conventional indoor artworks to outdoor installations and projects incorporating entire homes. However, many of the art pieces are closed on weekdays and during winter.

### Getting to Ogijima Island

A ferry operates every two hours between [Takamatsu Port](e5406.html), [Megijima](e5412.html) and Ogijima. The one way ride between Takamatsu and Ogijima takes 40 minutes and costs 510 yen.

[How to get to and around Takamatsu](e5404.html)

### Getting around Ogijima Island

Ogijima is small and can be explored entirely on foot. The lighthouse, which is located on the opposite side of the island from the ferry terminal, can be reached in a 30 minute walk.