---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5950.html
title: Shirakawa-go and Gokayama Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Shirakawa-go and Gokayama in the mountains of Gifu and Toyama Prefectures, famous for their gassho-zukuri style farmhouses.
keywords: gokayama, shirakawago, shirakawa-go, shirakawa, guide, travel, tourism, sightseeing, tourist, gasshozukuri, gassho, farmhouse, farmhouses, house, houses, unesco
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 944
char_count: 6870
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:50:22
---

The Shirakawa-go (白川郷, Shirakawagō) and neighboring Gokayama (五箇山) regions line the Shogawa River Valley in the remote mountains that span from [Gifu](/list/e1220.html) to [Toyama Prefectures](/list/e1219.html). Declared a [UNESCO world heritage site](e2251.html) in 1995, they are famous for their traditional gassho-zukuri farmhouses, some of which are more than 250 years old.

Gassho-zukuri means "constructed like hands in prayer", as the farmhouses' steep thatched roofs resemble the hands of [Buddhist](e2055.html) monks pressed together in prayer. The architectural style developed over many generations and is designed to withstand the large amounts of heavy [snow](e2265.html) that falls in the region during winter. The roofs, made without nails, provided a large attic space used for cultivating silkworms.

[Ogimachi](e5951.html), Shirakawa-go's largest village and main attraction, makes a good day trip from [Takayama](e5900.html), or a stop on the bus journey between [Takayama](e5900.html) and [Kanazawa](e2167.html). The best way to experience the town, however, is to stay [overnight at one of the farmhouses](e5952.html), many of which now serve as [minshuku](e2026.html).

Gokayama is a little more difficult to access and requires a change of buses in [Ogimachi](e5951.html). Less developed and less crowded than Shirakawa-go, its villages are smaller, more intimate and with less intrusion from modern buildings. Gokayama's nicest villages are [Suganuma](e5954.html) and [Ainokura](e5955.html).

* [](/e/e5952.html)

  1

  Agriculture

  [Farmhouse Stay•••](/e/e5952.html)

  A highly recommended experience.

  4.8

  

  200
* [](/e/e5951.html)

  2

  Historic Site

  [Ogimachi Village••](/e/e5951.html)

  Largest village in Shirakawa-go.

  4.5

  

  501
* [](/e/e5956.html)

  3

  Winter Illumination

  [Winter Light-up••](/e/e5956.html)

  Illumination on selected weekends in winter.

  4.0

  

  39
* [](/e/e5955.html)

  4

  Historic Site

  [Ainokura Village•](/e/e5955.html)

  The largest farmhouse village in Gokayama.

  4.4

  

  280
* [](/e/e5954.html)

  5

  Historic Site

  [Suganuma Village•](/e/e5954.html)

  Small village with farmhouses in Gokayama.

  4.3

  

  160

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Shirakawago](e5950.html)

[Getting to and around Shirakawago & Gokayama](e5953.html)
[See access info](e5953.html)

Getting In:

[Shirakawago Bus Timetables](/bus/shirakawago.html)
[Gokayama Bus Timetables](/bus/gokayama.html)