---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5831.html
title: Tokyo to Izumo\: How to get to and around Izumo
description: How to get to and around Izumo.
keywords: japan, matsue, itsumo, access, how, to get, orientation, transportation
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 594
char_count: 4343
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:29:59
---

From/To:

TokyoOsakaKyotoOkayamaIwami GinzanMatsue

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

Take the [JR Tokaido/Sanyo Shinkansen](e2018_tokaido.html) from [Tokyo](e2164.html) to [Okayama](e5700.html) (200 minutes by Nozomi, 240 minutes by Hikari, multiple trains per hour) and transfer to a JR Yakumo limited express train to [Matsue](e5800.html) (2.5 hours, one train per hour) or [Izumo](e5830.html) (3 hours, one train per hour). The one way fare is around 21,000 yen. Seat reservations are mandatory on Yakumo limited express trains.

The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) fully covers the journey if [Hikari](e2018_tokaido.html) trains are used between Tokyo and Okayama, but a supplement fee is required on the faster [Nozomi](e2018_tokaido.html) trains.

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

The "Sunrise Izumo" [night train](e2356.html) operates daily between [Tokyo](e2164.html), [Matsue](e5800.html) and [Izumo](e5830.html). One way fares including berth fee, start around 22,000 yen.

[Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) holders have to pay around 10,000 yen additionally for using a berth, except when using so called "nobi nobi" compartments, which can be used for free with the pass. Nobi nobi compartments are small spaces of carpeted floor to lie down. They are popular and often book out in advance.

[JAL](e2365.html) operates multiple flights per day between Tokyo's [Haneda Airport](e2430.html) and Izumo Airport (flight time 90 minutes). The regular one way fare is about 39,000 yen, but by using a [discount offer](e2364.html), you can usually fly for around 15,000 to 24,000 yen. Izumo Airport is a 30 minute bus ride from Matsue Station (1050 yen) and Izumoshi Station (720 yen).

ANA operates multiple [flights](e2365.html) per day between [Tokyo](e2164.html) and Yonago Airport. Flight time is 75 minutes. The regular one way fare is about 37,000 yen; however, [discount tickets](e2364.html) are usually available for between 15,000 to 24,000 yen. Yonago Airport is a 45 minute bus ride from Matsue Station (1000 yen).

Airfares from Izumo to Haneda over the next 30 days

December 23, 2025 - January 21, 2026

| Airline | Lowest fare | Average lowest fare |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [JAL](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=IZO&destination=HND&outboundDate=2026-01-19&airlines=JL) | [13,100 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=IZO&destination=HND&outboundDate=2026-01-19&airlines=JL) | [20,905 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=IZO&destination=HND&outboundDate=2026-01-19&airlines=JL) |

[Book Now](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&locale=en-GB&origin=IZO&destination=HND&outboundDate=2026-01-13)

[Matsue](e5800.html) and [Izumo](e5830.html) are connected with [Tokyo](e2164.html) by multiple [night buses](e2366.html). The one way ride takes around 12 hours and costs between 5,000 and 16,000 yen depending on the company and date of travel. Online reservations can be made through [Willer](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/shimane/matsue/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184).

[Book Now](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/shimane/matsue/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184)

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

[Izumo](e5830.html) is located about 30 kilometers west of [Matsue](e5800.html), the capital and largest city of [Shimane Prefecture](/list/e1237.html). The main entry point to Izumo is Izumoshi Station from where [Japan Railways (JR)](e2019.html) provides connections to Matsue and the rest of Japan. The station is also served by the local Ichibata Railway, whose network connects Izumo with Matsue and Izumo Taisha.

While Izumoshi Station is located in central Izumo, [Izumo Taisha](e5804.html) and the city's other tourist attractions are located several kilometers north of the city center. Buses (25 minutes, 470-530 yen one way, 2 buses/hour) and Ichibata Railway (25 minutes, 500 yen one way, one connection/hour, one transfer along the way) connect Izumoshi Station with the shrine area.

**Izumo Airport** is located a few kilometers east of Izumo's city center and connected with Izumoshi Station by [buses](e2015.html) (30 minutes, 720 yen one way).