---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5151.html
title: Tokyo to Sendai\: How to get to and around Sendai
description: Getting to and travelling around Sendai, Miyagi.
keywords: sendai, miyagi, access, directions, gettign there, transportation, train, bus, subway, location
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2111
char_count: 14070
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:07:11
---

From/To:

TokyoOsakaKyoto

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

[Sendai](e5150.html) is connected with [Tokyo](e2164.html) by the [JR Tohoku Shinkansen](e2018_tohoku.html). Hayabusa, Hayate and Komachi trains take 100 minutes to travel between Sendai and Tokyo and require seat reservations. Yamabiko trains have some unreserved seating and take about two hours. The one way journey costs approximately 11,000 yen, and all train types are fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html) and [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html).

Multiple bus companies, including [Willer Express](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/miyagi/sendai/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184), offer direct [highway bus](e2366.html) service between Tokyo and Sendai during both the day and night. Travel duration is about 5.5 hours. The one way fare is between 3,000 and 7,500 yen depending on the company and date of travel. Online reservations can be made through [Willer](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/miyagi/sendai/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184) and [Japan Bus Online](https://japanbusonline.com/en/AreaSearch2/3130000/2041009/?afcd=MDI=).

[Book Now](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/miyagi/sendai/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184)

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

The most convenient way for tourists to travel around [Sendai](e5150.html) is by Loople Sendai, a loop bus connecting most of the city's sites of interest. Sendai also has some JR train lines, two subway lines and a bus network (operated by Sendai City and Miyagi Kotsu).

The **Loople Sendai** is a bus service for tourists that runs in a one-hour, clockwise loop around the city. It stops at [Zuihoden](e5153.html), Sendai City Museum, [Aoba Castle](e5152.html) and other sightseeing spots and departs from Sendai Station every 20 minutes from 9:00 to 16:00. The fare is 260 yen per ride or 630 yen for a 1-day pass, which is not valid on other buses in the city. A 1-day pass for the Loople and the city's two subway lines is available for 920 yen.

Sendai has two **subway** lines, the Namboku Line (running north-south) and the Tozai Line (running east-west) that meet each other at Sendai Station. The Tozai Line offers access to the base of [Aoba Castle](e5152.html), but otherwise the subway lines are not particularly useful for tourists.

From Sendai Station, the **JR Senzan Line** runs north of the city center and provides access to [Rinnoji Temple](e5154.html), while the **JR Senseki Line** runs to [Matsushima](e5100.html), 35 kilometers northeast of the city center. The one way trip to Matsushima takes 40 minutes and costs 420 yen.

**Sendai Airport** is located about 20 kilometers southeast of the city center and can be accessed directly by train (15-25 minutes, 660 yen) from Sendai Station.

Sendai's local IC card, the Icsca card, as well as [Suica and nine other IC cards](e2359_003.html) can be used on virtually all means of public transportation in the Greater Sendai area, including subways, buses, the Loople Sendai bus, JR trains and the trains to Sendai Airport.

Loople Sendai

Two similar passes are available to tourists in the Greater Sendai area. Both of them provide unlimited use of the Loople bus, the subway, most Sendai City buses, certain Miyagi Kotsu buses and JR trains in and around Sendai, including the trains to [Matsushima](e5100.html), [Yamadera](e7940.html) and the [airport](e2365.html), and the buses to nearby [hot spring](e2292.html) resorts:

* **Sendai Area Pass (1 day, 1320 yen)**
    
  The [Sendai Area Pass](e2361_sendai.html) is valid on one calendar day and can be used only by foreign tourists, but not by residents of Japan. The pass can be purchased at JR Sendai Station.
* **Sendai Marugoto Pass (2 days, 2720 yen)**
    
  The Sendai Marugoto Pass is valid on two consecutive calendar days and can also be used by residents of Japan. It is available for purchase at many stations and sales locations in central Sendai, as well as at major JR stations in eastern Japan.