---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5316.html
title: Best cherry blossom spots in Sapporo (Sapporo Hanami Spots)
description: A list of popular hanami (cherry blossom viewing) spots in Sapporo.
keywords: sapporo, sakura, cherry, blossom, blossoms, hanami, spot, spots, hokkaido, shrine, maruyama, park, koen, odori, moerenuma
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1834
char_count: 12381
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:03:47
---

Below is a list of [Sapporo](e2163.html)'s most popular spots for cherry blossom viewing ([hanami](e2011.html)), including the typical timing for best viewing in the average year and japan-guide.com ratings. See also our nationwide list of [famous cherry blossom spots](e2011_where.html).

* 

  Maruyama Park and Hokkaido Shrine•

  Early to Mid May

  5 minute walk from the Maruyama Koen Station on the Tozai Subway Line

  The park and the shrine are located just beside each other and attract some of the largest crowds for [hanami parties](e2011_how.html) in Sapporo. The approach to the shrine is lined with dozens of cherry trees, while the park areas offer a lot of open space where people lay out mats and enjoy food and drink with friends under the flowers.
* 

  [Odori Park](e5301.html)

  Early to Mid May

  Beside Odori Station on the Nanboku, Tozai and Toho Subway Lines

  [Odori Park](e5301.html) is the city's most famous park in the very center of downtown Sapporo. Although the park does not have any groves of cherry trees that are particularly famous, there are quite a few spots to find blossoms. The cherry trees scattered throughout Odori Park provide an added bonus to a visit if traveling in spring.
* 

  [Moerenuma Park](e5313.html)

  Mid May

  25 minutes by bus from the Toho Subway Line's Kanjodori-higashi Station

  [Moerenuma Park](e5313.html) was designed by the artist [Isamu Noguchi](e5411.html) and has fascinating design elements that make a visit to the park a truly unique experience. In one section of the massive park there is a dense grove of cherry trees. The park's cherry trees bloom a bit later than the other cherry trees of Sapporo.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

[How to get to and around Sapporo](e5306.html)


[Read our Sapporo Hotel Guide](/hotels/sapporo.html)