---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5754.html
title: Ohara Museum
description: Visitor guide for the Ohara Museum, one of the oldest museum of Western art in Japan.
keywords: ohara, museum, western, art, kurashiki
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1665
char_count: 11056
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:30:59
---

Main Gallery

The Ohara Museum of Art (大原美術館, Ōhara Bijutsukan) is the oldest private museum in Japan with a focus on Western art. It consists of three adjacent buildings next to the [canal](e5751.html).

The **Main Gallery** building was constructed when the museum was founded, and features most of the museum's highlights. On display are masterpieces of Western art by Picasso, El Greco, Gauguin, Modigliani, Rodin, Klee, Pollock and Kandinsky among others. The artists in the collection span a wide variety of periods and nationalities.

Sculptures outside the Annex

Beside the Main Gallery are the Annex building and a building housing the Craft Art Gallery and the Asiatic Art Gallery. The **Annex** is currently closed to the public, while the **Craft Art Gallery** displays [ceramics](e2329.html), [woodblock prints](e2291.html), stencil dyeing, and other crafts. The **Asiatic Art Gallery** includes artefacts from Egypt and antiques from China.

The final building, the **Kojima Torajiro Memorial Hall**, is a one minute walk from the main museum. The gallery, located inside a former bank building, is devoted to Kojima Torajiro (1881-1929), a Japanese artist who painted in the Western style. Kojima purchased much of the art on display at the Ohara Museum on behalf of Ohara Magosaburo, the owner of the [Kurabo](e5755.html) textile company and founder of the Ohara Museum. In fact, the Ohara Museum was built by Ohara in 1930 to commemorate Kojima, who had died the year before.

Garden between the main gallery and annex

The main buildings of the Ohara Museum are located at the northern end of Kurashiki's historic [canal area](e5751.html).

[How to get to and around Kurashiki](e5753.html)