---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5990.html
title: Gero Onsen
description: Travel guide for Gero Onsen, a hot spring resort in Gifu Prefecture, Japan.
keywords: gero onsen, gero, onsen, travel, guide, tourist, tourism, sightseeing, visitor, information, hot, spring, springs, spa, bath, baths
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 643
char_count: 4332
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 22:43:49
---

In the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603 - 1868), Gero Onsen (下呂温泉) was referred to as one of Japan's three best [hot springs](e2292.html) by the leading [Confucian](e2300.html) scholar Hayashi Razan. While the town may now be quite a bit more urbanized than back then, the waters have retained that special quality which has made them so famous.

Gero is located between [Nagoya](e2155.html) and [Takayama](e5900.html), about an hour south of Takayama. This makes it a convenient stopover, or an attractive alternative to stay during the [Takayama Festival](e5909.html), when lodging is difficult to find in Takayama.

[Onsen](e2292.html) are what make Gero famous. There are three [public bath houses](e2074.html) available in town in addition to the many baths located in the numerous [ryokan](e2029.html), several of which are open to the public during certain times of the day for a fee.

A good way to sample some of these baths is to purchase a Yumeguri Tegata (spa pass), a wooden tablet that can be bought all around Gero including the tourist office, ryokan, souvenir shops and [convenience stores](e2071.html). It gets you three visits to the baths of any of over a dozen participating ryokan, costs 1300 yen and is good for six months. It also makes a nice souvenir.

Also dotted around the town are many free footbaths where one can sit and relax after a hard day of sightseeing. Among the footbaths is the riverside Funsenike pool which used to be a pool for bathing but was converted into a footbath because its well exposed location caused a constant stream of complaints and troubles.

Onsenji Temple

**Onsenji Temple** worships Yakushi Nyorai, the [Buddha](e2055.html) of healing, whose image is credited to restoring the flow of hot spring water to the town after it was stopped up by a large [earthquake](e2116.html). Climb the stone staircase to the [temple](e2058.html) gate to get a view of the city and river.

Located just above town is the **Gassho Village** (Gero Onsen Gassho Mura), an [open air museum](e2421.html) of gasshozukuri farmhouses, traditional steep roofed houses from the [Shirakawago](e5950.html) region. Here you can view the houses, see performances or participate in traditional folk art. Also inside the Gassho Village complex is a komainu (shrine guard dog statue) museum.

Gassho Village Open Air Museum

### By train from Nagoya or Takayama

The one way journey from [Nagoya](e2155.html) to Gero takes about 90 minutes and costs around 4500 yen by JR Hida limited express. There are departures every 1-2 hours and the trip is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html). ([How to get to Nagoya](e3302.html))

From [Takayama](e5900.html), you can reach Gero by limited express (45 minutes, about 2000 yen, departures every 1-2 hours) or local train (1 hour, 990 yen, departures every 1-2 hours). ([How to get to Takayama](e5908.html))

### By bus from Takayama

[Local buses](e2015.html) connect [Takayama](e5900.html) with Gero Onsen every 1-2 hours. The one way trip takes about 90 minutes and costs 1060 yen.

### By shuttle bus from Nagoya for overnight guests

Gero Onsen operates a daily shuttle bus for visitors staying overnight at Gero Onsen between Nagoya Station and Gero Station. The trip takes 2.5 hours and costs 3300 yen one way. A round trip ticket is available for 4500 yen. Advance reservations are mandatory.