---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5476.html
title: Tokyo to Naoshima\: How to get to and around Naoshima
description: About access, orientation and transportation around Naoshima.
keywords: naoshima, access, orientation, transportation, guide, travel, directions, ferry, bus, train
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 431
char_count: 3256
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:19:30
---

From/To:

TokyoOsakaKyotoTakamatsuOkayama

The journey between [Tokyo](/e/e2164.html) and [Naoshima](/e/e5475.html) leads via [Okayama](/e/e5700.html):
  
1) [How to get from Tokyo to Okayama](e5703.html?aFROM=2164_5700)
  
2) [How to get from Okayama to Naoshima](e5476.html?aFROM=5475_5700)

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

[Naoshima](e5475.html) has two public [ferry](e2355.html) ports: Miyanoura and Honmura.

Most tourists enter Naoshima through **Miyanoura Port** on the island's west coast. Miyanoura is served by ferries to/from [Takamatsu](e5400.html), Uno and [Inujima](e5725.html). The ferry terminal at Miyanoura Port serves as the information center and transportation hub of the island. It also provides coin lockers and [bicycle](e2210.html) rentals. **Honmura Port** on the island's east coast is conveniently located near the [Art House Project](e5479.html), but has only infrequent ferry connections to/from Uno.

Naoshima's museums and art installations are found along the southern coast of the island. One to three **town buses** per hour run from Miyanoura Ferry Terminal via Honmura (10 minutes, 100 yen) to the Tsutsujiso bus stop at the east gate of the Benesse House complex (15 minutes, 100 yen), from where free **shuttle buses** continue to the [Benesse House](e5478.html) (3 minutes), the [Lee Ufan Museum](e5482.html) (5 minutes) and the [Chichu Art Museum](e5477.html) (7 minutes).

Complimentary buses for overnight guests of the Benesse House additionally operate once or twice per hour between the ports, the Benesse House and the Chichu Art Museum.

**Rental bicycles** are a pleasant alternative for exploring the island, although some of the roads traverse moderate hills. [Bicycles](e2210.html) are available from the Miyanoura ferry terminal from 500 yen per day and electric assisted bicycles for around 1500 yen per day (lower rates in winter). Passionate walkers could also consider walking between the ferry terminal and the sights, however, distances are considerable, and most visitors will prefer travel by [bus](e2015.html) or [bicycle](e2210.html).

Exploring Naoshima by bicycle