---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5507.html
title: Dogo Onsen Honkan
description: Visitor guide for Dogo Onsen Honkan, the famous hot spring bath house in Matsuyama.
keywords: dogo, onsen, honkan, matsuyama, spa, hot, springs, spring
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1901
char_count: 12337
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:11:38
---

Dogo Onsen Honkan

Dogo Onsen Honkan (道後温泉本館, Dōgo Onsen Honkan) is the symbol and main attraction of [Dogo Onsen](e5502.html). The charismatic bath house was built in 1894 during the [Meiji Period](e2130.html). Its wooden interior is a maze of stairways, passages and rooms, usually bustling with activity by staff and guests. Dogo Onsen Honkan is said to have served as inspiration for the award-winning animated film "Spirited Away" by Miyazaki's [Studio Ghibli](e3041.html).

The Honkan offers two gender-separated, old-fashioned public baths made of stone. The main bath is called Kami no Yu (Bath of the Gods), while a second, smaller but more distinguished bath is called Tama no Yu (Bath of the Spirits). Large communal tatami rooms on the second floor and smaller private rooms on the third floor provide bathers with space to rest and enjoy a snack. A variety of admission plans provide visitors with varying levels of access to the Honkan's facilities (see details under [Hours and Fees](#section_admission)).

Private resting room on the third floor

A special section of the Honkan, called Yushinden, was constructed and set aside for the [Imperial Family](e2135.html)'s visit in 1899. Today, visitors can join a short guided tour of the Yushinden and view the facilities reserved for visiting emperors. These include a lavishly decorated room with a coffered ceiling, and a bath and toilet for the emperor's exclusive use. No emperor has actually used the Yushinden since 1952.

In a corner on the second floor, there is, furthermore, a small exhibition of historic documents related to Dogo Onsen, such as old admission tickets for the local baths, that include small pieces of wood (yufuda) used as tickets in the past. You may also notice some paintings and statues of a heron around the Honkan which are related to a legend in which a white heron's injured leg was healed by the local waters.

Room reserved for use by the emperor

Dogo Onsen Honkan is a four minute walk from Dogo Onsen Station, the terminus of three tram lines. It can be reached from JR Matsuyama Station by tram line 5 in 20 minutes or from Matsuyama-shi Station by tram line 3 in 15 minutes.

[How to get to and around Matsuyama](e5504.html)