---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5300.html
title: Sapporo Beer Museum
description: Visitor guide for the Sapporo Beer Museum.
keywords: sapporo, beer, museum, garten, garden, hall
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1808
char_count: 12329
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:12:39
---

Sapporo Beer Museum

[Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html) is the birthplace of [beer](e2037.html) in Japan. Sapporo Beer, one of the oldest and most popular beer brands in the country, has been brewed in [Sapporo](e2163.html) since [1877](e2130.html).

The Sapporo Beer Museum (サッポロビール博物館, Sapporo Beer Hakubutsukan) was opened in 1987 in a former brewery from the [Meiji Period](e2130.html). The museum introduces the history of [beer](e2037.html) in Japan and the process of beer making. After the exhibitions, beer tastings are available at a small fee. Alternatively, paid tours are held in Japanese that include a tasting session at the end.

Next to the museum is the Sapporo Beer Garden, which consists of a few restaurants. Among the restaurants are several, atmospheric beer halls and the more sophisticated Garden Grill restaurant. Popular in the beer halls are all-you-can-drink beer and all-you-can-eat mutton BBQ, a popular local dish named after Genghis Khan (Jingisukan in Japanese).

Beer tasting after passing through the museum

The Beer Museum can be accessed by the "Loop 88 Factory Line" bus that stops among other places at Odori Station and in front of Tokyu department store near Sapporo Station (240 yen one way, every 30 minutes). Get off at the Sapporo Beer-en (サッポロビール園) bus stop. Alternatively, it is a 25 minute walk from JR Sapporo Station or a 15 minute walk from Higashi-kuyakusho-mae Station on the Toho Subway Line.

Address: North 7, East 9

[How to get to and around Sapporo](e5306.html)