---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5311.html
title: Sapporo Snow Festival 2026 (Sapporo Yuki Matsuri)
description: Visitor guide for the Sapporo Snow Festival (Sapporo Yuki Matsuri).
keywords: sapporo, snow, festival, yuki, matsuri, sculpture, sculptures, ice
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1959
char_count: 13208
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:05:08
---

**The 2026 Snow Festival is scheduled for February 4-11.**

The Sapporo Snow Festival (さっぽろ雪まつり, Sapporo Yuki Matsuri) is held during one week every February in [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html)'s capital [Sapporo](e2163.html). It is one of Japan's most popular winter events.

The Sapporo Snow Festival was started in 1950, when high school students built a few snow statues in [Odori Park](e5301.html). It has since developed into a large, commercialized event, featuring spectacular snow and ice sculptures and attracting huge numbers of visitors. The festival is staged on three sites: the Odori Site, Susukino Site and Tsu Dome Site.

Odori Site

The main site is the **Odori Site** in Sapporo's centrally located 1.5 kilometer long [Odori Park](e5301.html). The festival's famous large snow sculptures, some measuring more than 25 meters wide and 15 meters high, are exhibited there. They are lit up daily until 22:00. Besides about a dozen large snow sculptures, the Odori Site exhibits more than one hundred smaller snow statues and hosts several concerts and events, many of which use the sculptures as their stage.

A good view over the Odori Site can be enjoyed from the Sapporo TV Tower at the site's eastern end. The tower has extended hours during the festival. Admission to the top observatory costs 1000 yen. A 1500 yen ticket allows for a day visit and a night visit.

Susukino Site

The **Susukino Site**, located in and named after Sapporo's largest entertainment district, exhibits about one hundred ice sculptures. [Susukino](e5305.html) is located only one subway stop south of Odori Park. The ice sculptures are lit up daily until 23:00 (until 22:00 on the festival's final day).

The less centrally located **Tsu Dome Site** is a family-oriented site with multiple snow slides, snow rafting and more snow sculptures. Inside the dome, there is a playground and some food stands. The Tsu Dome Site is open daily from 10:00 to 16:00.

Tsu Dome Site

While the Odori and Susukino sites are in central Sapporo, the Tsu Dome Site is located outside the city center, a 15 minute walk from Sakaemachi Station along the Toho Subway Line (10 minutes, 250 yen from Sapporo Station or 15 minutes, 290 yen from Odori Station). There are also shuttle buses operating between Sakaemachi Station and the Tsu Dome Site for 200 yen one way. Parking is not available near the Tsu Dome Site.

[How to get to and around Sapporo](e5306.html)