---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5931.html
title: Tokyo to Gujo-Hachiman\: How to get to and around Gujo-Hachiman
description: Access, orientation and transportation in Gujo-Hachiman.
keywords: gujo, hachiman, access, orientation, transportation, how, to, get, to, around
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 357
char_count: 2746
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:20:26
---

From/To:

TokyoNagoyaOsakaKyotoTakayama

The journey between [Tokyo](e2164.html) and [Gujo](e5930.html) leads via [Nagoya](e2155.html):
  
1) [How to get from Tokyo to Nagoya](e3302.html)
  
2) [How to get from Nagoya to Gujo](e5931.html?aFROM=2155_5930)

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

[Gujo](e5930.html)'s town center is relatively small and can be explored entirely on foot. Alternatively, you can rent [bicycles](e2210.html) from the tourist information office for 300 yen per day (600 yen for electric bicycles). Of all major sightseeing spots, only the [Iwasaki Sample Village](e5933.html) near the railway station and the [Otaki Cave](e5936.html) are not located in the town center.

Gujo's [railway](e2019.html) station, Gujo-Hachiman Station, however, is situated more than one kilometer west of the town center, close to Iwasaki Sample Village. Similarly inconvenient is the location of the [highway bus](e2366.html) stop "Gujo-Hachiman Inter" where many highway buses from [Nagoya](e2155.html) stop.

Much more centrally located is the "Gujo-Hachiman Jokamachi Plaza" bus terminal, which is served by some buses from Nagoya and all buses from Gifu. A loop bus, called **Mame Bus**, runs hourly between the railway station, the "Shimo-Osakicho" bus stop near the expressway and Jokamachi Plaza in the town center in both directions. One ride costs 100 yen, while a day pass for unlimited rides on a given calendar day costs 200 yen.