---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5032.html
title: Ishinomori Manga Museum
description: Visitor guide for the Ishinomori Manga Museum, a large, egg shaped museum dedicated to the work of Ishinomori Shotaro, creator of popular series such as Kaman Rider and Cyborg 009.
keywords: ishinomori, shotaro, manga, museum, Mangattan, mangakan, comic, comics, kaman, rider, cyborg, 009, ishinomaki
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 378
char_count: 2924
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:25:34
---

The Ishinomori Manga Museum (石ﾉ森萬画館, Ishinomori Mangakan, aka Ishinomori Mangattan Museum) is an art museum in Ishinomaki City that is dedicated to the [manga](e2070.html) artist Ishinomori Shotaro. Ishinomori (1938-1998) was a prolific artist who created several dozen influential manga series including Cyborg 009 and Kamen Rider. His work essentially pioneered the super powered and transforming ranger manga genres, and new adaptations of his series are still produced for TV and turned into movies today. He used to reside in Ishinomaki.

The museum displays a collection of comics, statues and artworks from his numerous manga series. Some of his creations are also displayed in the streets of Ishinomaki City, including several statues depicting characters from his manga series. His artworks furthermore decorate some trains in the Ishinomaki area as well as buildings of "Manga Island", a camping resort on nearby [Tashiro Island](e5031.html).

The Manga Museum's modern, egg-shaped building is located on an island in the mouth of the Kyukitakamigawa River, where it lay right in the path of the [2011 tsunami](e5027.html). Much of the museum's collection was destroyed in the disaster, but the sturdy building itself survived more or less intact. After time-consuming restoration works, the museum fully reopened in 2013.

The Ishinomori Manga Museum one month after the tsunam

From Ishinomaki Station, it is about a 10-15 minute walk, or a short [taxi](e2021.html) ride (about 900 yen) to the museum.

[How to get to and around Ishinomaki](e5040.html#section_get_there)