---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5001.html
title: Chusonji Temple
description: Visitor guide for Chusonji Temple, Hiraizumi's most famous temple.
keywords: chusonji, temple, hiraizumi, gold, hall, konjikido, fujiwara, tohoku
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 390
char_count: 2882
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 17:33:39
---

Approach

[Hiraizumi](e5000.html)'s most famous attraction, Chusonji (中尊寺, Chūsonji) was established in 850 as a [temple](e2058.html) of the [Tendai](e2055.html) sect of Buddhism. The temple came to prominence when the northern branch of the [Fujiwara](e2132.html) clan moved their base to [Hiraizumi](e5000.html). At its peak, the temple consisted of a large network of dozens of buildings.

With the fall of the Fujiwara at the end of the 12th century, Chusonji suffered likewise so that now only two buildings from that era remain intact. Luckily, among these is the most spectacular, the Konjikido. Similar to [Kyoto](e2158.html)'s famous [Kinkakuji](e3908.html) (Golden Pavilion), Konjikido is a hall completely covered in gold. It dates back to 1124 and stands inside another building for protection. Photography of the Konjikido is prohibited.

The hall that houses Konjikido Hall

The other building that survives from the period of prosperity under the Fujiwara is the Kyozo Hall, which served as a repository for sutra (Buddhist scripture). While not nearly as impressive as the gilded Konjikido, it nonetheless even predates that building by 16 years.

Chusonji has a number of interesting buildings apart from those dating back to the Fujiwara period. The main rituals and rites of the temple are performed at the Hondo (main hall), and there is a Treasure Hall that houses some impressive artifacts. There is also a beautiful [noh](e2091.html) theater stage. Chusonji's attractions are located along a network of paths that extend about one kilometer into the forest.

Hondo (main hall)

From Hiraizumi Station, Chusonji can be reached in a five minute ride by regular [bus](e2015.html), in a ten minute ride by the [Hiraizumi Loop Bus](e5005.html) or in a 20-30 minute walk.

[How to get to and around Hiraizumi](e5005.html)