---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5602.html
title: Katsurahama Beach
description: Visitor guide for Katsurahama, a famous beach in Kochi.
keywords: katsurahama, beach, kochi, sakamoto, ryoma, memorial, museum
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1635
char_count: 10624
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:18:59
---

Katsurahama (桂浜) is a scenic [beach](e2461.html), 30 minutes south of central [Kochi](e5600.html) by bus. Because of strong currents, swimming is prohibited at Katsurahama. In place of swimming, visitors see the many other attractions located around the area.

A famous statue of Kochi's favorite son, **Sakamoto Ryoma** stands near the beach. Sakamoto was one of the architects of modern Japan. He was instrumental in negotiating an alliance between the Choshu and Satsuma clans that helped to bring an end to Japan's [feudal age](e2128.html) in 1868. The Sakamoto Ryoma Memorial Museum stands on the hill above the beach.

Other minor sites of interest are a small aquarium at the beach and a small [shrine](e2059.html) on the point of Katsurahama, which is connected to the Sakamoto Ryoma Memorial Museum on the hill above by pleasant walking paths. Kochi's specialty dish, [katsuo no tataki](e5606.html), is served at the local restaurants.

The statue of Sakamoto Ryoma

The one way trip by Kochiken Kotsu [bus](e2015.html) from JR Kochi Station to Katsurahama takes approximately 35 minutes and costs 800 yen.

Katsurahama Beach can also be reached by the [My Yu Bus](e5603.html), a bus for tourists that runs from Kochi Station via [Mount Godaisan](e5604.html) to Katsurahama. The one way trip from Kochi Station to Katsurahama takes about one hour, and a 1-day pass costs 1300 yen.

[How to get to and around Kochi](e5603.html)