---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5755.html
title: Ivy Square
description: Visitor guide for the Ivy Square in Kuirashiki, an old brick cotton mill which has been converted into an entertainment complex.
keywords: ivy, square, kurashiki, cotton, kurabo
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1782
char_count: 11935
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:31:03
---

Kurashiki Ivy Square (倉敷アイビースクエア) is a collection of brick buildings covered in ivy that include a museum, restaurants and a hotel. The area was the site of the first modern cotton mill in Japan, and the brick buildings were originally built as part of the mill in 1889. Before the construction of the mill, the site was used for the offices of the local magistrate, who exercised control over [Kurashiki](e5750.html) as the direct representative of the [shogun](e2128.html).

In building Japan's first modern cotton mill, the Kurashiki Bosekijo (Kurashiki spinning mill) company, also known as Kurabo, reaped the profits of introducing new industrial techniques to the country. The company is still active today in the textile and various other industries. Kurabo has built a [memorial hall](e5755.html#kurabo) in one of the former cotton warehouses which traces the company's history. A number of other museums are located within and around Ivy Square:

* 

  Kurabo Museum

  Hours: 10:00 to 16:00 (entry until 15:45)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 300 yen  
  Typical visit duration: 15-30 minutes

  The Kurabo Museum illustrates the history of the Kurashiki Bosekijo (Kurashiki spinning mill) company. There are five rooms each devoted to a different time period, from the company's foundation in 1888 to the present day with corresponding artefacts on display.
* 

  Momotaro Karakuri Museum

  Hours: 10:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 600 yen  
  Typical visit duration: 20-30 minutes

  The story of Momotaro (Peach Boy) is one of the most famous legends in Japan, and it takes place in the region around [Kurashiki](e5750.html). This small museum just outside Ivy Square displays a number of fun devices that all have the legend of Momotaro as a theme.
* 

  Piggybank Museum

  Hours: 10:30 to 17:00  
  Closed: Thursdays  
  Admission: 300 yen  
  Typical visit duration: 10-15 minutes

  This small museum displays a large collection of piggy banks that were all made in Japan. There are hundreds of piggy banks, ranging from those produced for the [1970 Osaka Expo](e4029.html) to those of popular comic book characters. Located outside Ivy Square, the museum is recognizable by the many dog statues perched on its roof.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

Ivy Square is just a few steps away from the southern half of Kurashiki's preserved [canal area](e5751.html).

[How to get to and around Kurashiki](e5753.html)