---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5220.html
title: Okada Museum of Art
description: Visitor guide for the Okada Museum of Art in Hakone.
keywords: okada, museum, art, hakone
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1672
char_count: 11149
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:44:00
---

The Okada Museum of Art (岡田美術館, Okada Bijutsukan) is a privately-owned museum showcasing a wide collection of art pieces dating from antiquity to the modern era. Opened in 2013, the museum features a large array of East Asian ceramics, sculptures and paintings, all housed in a very spacious, modern facility surrounded by expansive grounds that feature a [Japanese garden](e2099.html), a teahouse and a cafe with [hot spring](e2292.html) foot bath.

The heart of the museum's collection lies in its huge collection of Chinese and Japanese [ceramics](e2329.html) and sculptures, which dominates the first two floors, including ancient Chinese bronzes, Tang and Ming porcelain, [early Japanese](e2131.html) pottery and more. The upper floors focus on Japanese art, with a variety of art forms and time periods represented. Most items on display are labeled with basic information in English, Chinese, Korean and Japanese.

When entering, be aware that the museum's security measures are rather strict, requiring guests to store phones, cameras, bags and even stationary in free lockers at the front.

The Okada Museum is located a few steps away from the Kowakien (小涌園) bus stop. Kowakien can be reached by frequent buses from Hakone-Yumoto Station (25 minutes, 730 yen), Hakonemachi (20 minutes, 750 yen) or Gora Station (5 minutes, 250 yen). While Hakone Tozan buses are covered by the [Hakone Free Pass](e2358_008.html), Izuhakone buses are not.

[How to get to and around Hakone](e5206.html)