---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5404.html
title: Tokyo to Takamatsu\: How to get to and around Takamatsu
description: How to get to and around Takamatsu.
keywords: japan, takamatsu, access, orientation, how, to ,get, there, around
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1980
char_count: 13605
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:09:12
---

From/To:

TokyoOsakaKyotoMatsuyamaKochi

JAL and ANA operate multiple flights per day between [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s [Haneda Airport](e2430.html) and Takamatsu Airport. Travel duration is 80 minutes. The regular one way fare is around 43,000 yen, but [discount tickets](e2364.html) are usually available for around 14,000 to 27,000 yen. Furthermore, Jetstar Japan is operating flights between Tokyo's [Narita Airport](e2027.html) and Takamatsu at considerably lower fares, that typically start around 5,000 yen one way. Takamatsu Airport is a 45 minute, 1,000 yen bus ride outside central [Takamatsu](e5400.html).

Airfares from Tokyo to Takamatsu over the next 30 days

December 23, 2025 - January 21, 2026

| Airline | Lowest fare | Average lowest fare |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [ANA](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=TAK&outboundDate=2026-01-18&airlines=NH) | [11,639 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=TAK&outboundDate=2026-01-18&airlines=NH) | [20,936 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=TAK&outboundDate=2026-01-18&airlines=NH) |
| [JAL](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=TAK&outboundDate=2026-01-21&airlines=JL) | [12,650 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=TAK&outboundDate=2026-01-21&airlines=JL) | [17,573 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=TAK&outboundDate=2026-01-21&airlines=JL) |
| [Jetstar Japan](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=TAK&outboundDate=2026-01-19&airlines=JQ) | [4,480 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=TAK&outboundDate=2026-01-19&airlines=JQ) | [11,494 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=TAK&outboundDate=2026-01-19&airlines=JQ) |

[Book Now](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&locale=en-GB&origin=TYO&destination=TAK&outboundDate=2026-01-13)

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

Take the [JR Tokaido/Sanyo Shinkansen](e2018.html) from [Tokyo](e2164.html) to [Okayama](e5700.html) and transfer to the JR Marine Liner rapid train to [Takamatsu](e5400.html). The entire journey costs around 18,000 yen one way. It takes about 4.5 hours if using a [Nozomi](e2018.html) train along the Tokaido/Sanyo Shinkansen or about 30-60 minutes longer if using [Hikari](e2018.html) trains. The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) fully covers the entire trip if Hikari and Sakura trains are used along the Tokaido/Sanyo Shinkansen, but a supplement fee is required on the faster Nozomi and Mizuho trains.

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)(nobi nobi compartments)

The Sunrise Seto [night train](e2356.html) connects [Tokyo](e2164.html) with [Takamatsu](e5400.html). It operates daily and requires 9.5 hours for the one way journey. The train carries private compartments (from 21,500 yen per person one way), and carpeted "nobi nobi" floor space compartments (around 15,500 yen per person one way). [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) holders need to pay a supplement of around 10,000 yen for using a private compartment on board of the Sunrise Seto, but the "nobi nobi" compartments are fully covered by the pass. Advance reservations are mandatory.

Several highway bus companies operate [night buses](e2366.html) between Tokyo (Tokyo and Shinjuku stations) and Takamatsu Station. The one way trip takes about eleven hours and costs between 8,000 and 15,000 yen depending on the date of travel. Online reservations can be made through [Willer](https://willer-travel.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/kagawa/takamatsu/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184).

[Book Now](https://willer-travel.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/kagawa/takamatsu/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184)

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

The area around JR Takamatsu Station, known as [Sunport Takamatsu](e5406.html), is the entry point to Takamatsu and one of the area's main sites of interest. The pleasant waterfront district also features [Takamatsu Castle](e5403.html) nearby. [Shopping arcades](e5407.html) run south from the castle through the city center to [Ritsurin Koen](e5401.html). [Yashima](e5405.html) and [Shikoku Mura](e5402.html) lie east of the city center.

Central Takamatsu is easily explored on foot and by the local Kotoden and JR train lines. City [buses](e2015.html) serve the sites of interest as well, but trains are easier to use.

**Kotoden Railway** connects Takamatsu with nearby Kotohira and other destinations in [Kagawa Prefecture](/list/e1233.html). Its lines run through the city center and provide connections to most of the city's central and outlying sights. Its terminal station, Takamatsu-Chikko Station, is located a short walk away from JR Takamatsu Station.

The **JR Tokushima Line**, which connects Takamatsu with Tokushima, is less convenient for transportation within the city, but provides an alternative to Kotoden for access to [Ritsurin Koen](e5401.html) and [Yashima](e5405.html). Unlike Kotoden, it is covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html).

Suica, Icoca and the other eight nationwide [IC cards](e2359_003.html) can be used on Kotoden trains and buses, including the airport buses, and on JR trains between [Okayama](e5700.html) and Takamatsu, as well as at Ritsurin Koen Kitaguchi, Ritsurin and Yashima stations along the JR Tokushima Line. The locally available Iruca card is valid on Kotoden trains and buses but not on JR trains.

**Takamatsu Airport** lies south of the city center and is accessible by airport limousine bus (45 minutes, 1000 yen). The [airport](e2365.html) has many flights to [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s [Haneda Airport](e2430.html) alongside less frequent flights to Tokyo's [Narita Airport](e2027.html), [Okinawa](/list/e1247.html) and some destinations in eastern Asia.