---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5851.html
title: How to get to and around Iwami Ginzan\: Access, Orientation and Transportation
description: Access, orientation and transportation in Iwami Ginzan, Japan.
keywords: iwami, ginzan, access, orientation, transportation, access, how, to, get, to, directions, bus, train, cart
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 631
char_count: 4174
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:18:24
---

### How to get to Iwami Ginzan

[Iwami Ginzan](e5850.html) is located off the beaten track along the Sea of Japan coast of [Shimane Prefecture](/list/e1237.html). It is most easily accessed from [Matsue](e5800.html) ([how to get to Matsue](e5805.html)):

#### By train and bus from Matsue

Take a JR train from [Matsue](e5800.html) to Oda (Odashi Station) and transfer to a [bus](e2015.html) to [Iwami Ginzan](e5850.html). The one way train ride from Matsue to Oda takes 45-90 minutes and costs 1170-3000 yen by local or limited express train. All trains are covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html). The bus journey between Odashi Station and Iwami Ginzan takes about 30 minutes, costs 760 yen one way (640 yen if you get off at the Omori Daikansho bus stop instead of the World Heritage Center bus stop) and is not covered by the Japan Rail Pass. There is roughly one bus per hour.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](/e/e2196.html).

The attractions of [Iwami Ginzan](e5850.html) are concentrated around [Omori Town](e5853.html) and the nearby [former mining area](e5852.html). Omori Town stretches for about one kilometer along a river, while the mining area is found another two kilometers further up the valley.

Because walking distances are considerable, there are buses about 1-3 times per hour between "Omori Daikansho" at the northern end of [Omori Town](e5853.html) (Daikansho refers to the nearby [Former Government Office](e5853.html)) and the World Heritage Center (Sekaiisan Center) where the main parking lot is located. A few of these buses offer direct connections to Oda-shi Station (about once per hour) and Nima Station (about once every 3 hours).

While buses run along the entire length of Omori Town, they do not provide access to the [mining area](e5852.html), which is a 30-45 minute walk along an easy and pleasant walking trail. Alternatively, there is a unique golf cart service, Ginzan Cart, that runs every 30 minutes between Omori Town and the Ryugenji Mabu Mine Shaft except on Wednesdays. The one way ride takes about 25 minutes and costs 400-500 yen one way.

Private [cars](e2024.html) are banned from Omori Town and the former mining area. Visitors arriving by car should use the parking lot next to the World Heritage Center, which is connected with the town by bus (5 minutes, 200 yen to Omori; 7 minutes, 240 yen to Omori Daikansho). Alternatively you can walk from the parking lot to the Omori bus stop in about 20-30 minutes.

#### How to travel between Omori and Yunotsu

Take a bus to Nima or Oda-shi Station and transfer to the JR Sanin Line to [Yunotsu](e5854.html). With a good connection, the journey takes about 45 minutes via Nima Station or about one hour via Oda-shi Station, but note that the [train](e2019.html) and [bus](e2015.html) services are rather infrequent. By [car](e2024.html), it takes less than 30 minutes. Alternatively, it is possible to walk between the mining area and Yunotsu along the 12 kilometer long [Yunotsu-Okidomari hiking trail](e5854.html), which used to serve as the main route for transporting the silver to Okidomari Port.