---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5222.html
title: Odawara Castle (Odawarajo)
description: Visitor guide for Odawara Castle, a reconstructed castle in Odawara City at the entrance to the Hakone area.
keywords: odawara, castle, odawarajo, odawara-jo, park, japan, hakone
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1737
char_count: 11533
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:44:05
---

Odawara Castle (小田原城, Odawarajō) was originally built in the mid 15th century and soon fell into the hands of the Hojo Clan, one of the most powerful clans during the [Warring States Era](/e/e2134.html) who used it as a base to control the region around modern day Tokyo. In 1590, [Toyotomi Hideyoshi](/e/e2123.html) attacked the castle, and with the defeat of the Hojo Clan, reunited Japan.

In 1703 the [castle](/e/e2296.html) was destroyed by an [earthquake](/e/e2116.html) but quickly rebuilt; yet in 1870, the castle keep and other buildings were dismantled and sold. The keep was rebuilt again in ferro-concrete in 1960 based on models and drawings from the [Edo Period](/e/e2128.html) (1603-1868). Over the following years, the three major gates leading up to the castle were also restored. Today it is the closest castle keep to Tokyo.

The Akagane Gate

The **castle keep** is three stories on the outside and four stories on the inside. The interior features exhibits on the history of the castle as well as displays of items such as armor and swords. The top floor offers nice views of the park and surrounding city. The castle is also a famous spot for [cherry blossoms](/e/e2011.html) (typically in bloom around late March to early April) and many other [flowers](/e/e2423.html), including [plum blossoms](/e/e2013.html), azalea, wisteria, iris, [hydrangea](e2423_ajisai.html) and lotus blossoms.

Also located on the castle grounds is the **Ninja Museum** on the eastern side near the main entrance of the castle grounds. Inside the museum is an obstacle course through which visitors can learn more about [ninja](e2295.html) skills and culture, and experience being one. There is also a small **Samurai Museum** inside the Tokiwaki Gate building across from the castle keep. [Samurai](e2127.html) armor and swords are exhibited within.

The castle grounds are a popular spot for cherry blossoms in spring

Odawara Castle is located about a ten minute walk from Odawara Station's East Exit along Ohoribata Street.

[How to get to and around Hakone](e5206.html)