---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5508.html
title: Matsuyama Shopping Guide
description: A bsic guide to shopping in the city of Matsuyama.
keywords: matsuyama, shopping, guide
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1797
char_count: 12012
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:46:41
---

Okaido Shopping Street

From Matsuyama-shi Station, a sheltered shopping arcade stretches about half a kilometer eastwards (Gintengai Shopping Street) before turning northwards and leading a further 600 meters towards the Okaido tram stop (Okaido Shopping Street). A large variety of establishments can be found along these arcades, including independent fashion boutiques, chain stores, cosmetic retailers, jewellery dealers, accessory shops, patisseries, [pachinko](e2065.html) parlors, cafes, [restaurants](e2036.html) and more.

North of the Okaido tram stop, the street leading towards the lower station of the ropeway to [Matsuyama Castle](e5501.html) is lined by several trendy shops selling local products from [Matsuyama](e5501.html) and [Ehime Prefecture](/list/e1235.html).

Shopping Street around the lower station of the ropeway to Matsuyama Castle

Northeast of the city center in the [Dogo Onsen](e5502.html) area, a sheltered shopping arcade connects the Dogo Onsen tram station with the [Dogo Onsen Honkan](e5507.html) bath house. The approximately 250 meter long arcade is filled with stores selling local specialties, gifts, snacks and designer desserts. Most shops here open into the night, and the shopping street remains lively with strolling visitors and [ryokan](e2029.html) guests in their [yukata](e2103.html).

Shops and restaurants in Matsuyama maintain their individual opening hours and closing days. Stores along the Gintengai and Okaido shopping streets typically open from around 10:00 to 20:00, while restaurants typically open longer into the evening. The stores at the Dogo Onsen shopping street typically open from around 9:00 to 22:00 to cater to [ryokan](e2029.html) guests taking an evening walk. Many of the shops are open everyday, while others close on one day per month or week, typically Tuesday or Wednesday.

Dogo Onsen Shopping Street

[How to get to and around Matsuyama](e5504.html)