---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5030.html
title: Kamaishi Iron and Steel History Museum
description: Visitor guide for the Iron and Steel History Museum, a museum that chronicals the history of iron and steel manufacturing at Kamaishi town in the Tohoku Region of Japan.
keywords: kamaishi, iron, steel, museum, history, japan
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 465
char_count: 3457
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:24:52
---

The Iron and Steel Museum (鉄の歴史館, Tetsu no Rekishikan) commemorates the history of the iron industry in [Kamaishi City](e5046.html). Magnetite was discovered in the mountains around Kamaishi in the 18th century, and Japan's first blast furnace was subsequently constructed there in the 19th century, marking the start of modern iron production in the country. The city then proceeded to be a major producer of steel, but suffered setbacks from natural disasters, war and economic decline.

The museum features a huge model of a blast furnace in its theater, used in conjunction with a video presentation to explain the past of iron mining and steel milling in [Kamaishi](e5046.html). Visitors can learn about the properties of iron through exhibits in the experimentation room and find out about the production process of iron and steel through explanations and diagrams, but note that all the information is in Japanese only. There is also an observation lounge from which nice views of the [Sanriku Coast](e5025.html) can be enjoyed.

The site of Japan's first blast furnace, the Hashino Blast Furnace, is located 20 kilometers west of central Kamaishi in the remote forested mountains halfway between Kamaishi and [Tono](e5060.html) where magnetite was originally found. Only some ruins and foundations remain of the complex today. However, due to its importance in the industrial history of Japan, the site received [world heritage](e2251.html) status alongside other [Sites of Japan's Meiji Industrial Revolution](e2252.html) in 2015.

The site of Japan's first blast furnaces in the remote mountains outside of central Kamaishi

The Iron and Steel Museum is a ten minute [taxi](e2021.html) ride (about 1600-1800 yen one way) from JR Kamaishi Station or a 15-20 minute walk from the [Kamaishi Daikannon](e5047.html).

The Hashino Blast Furnace is located in the remote mountains between central [Kamaishi](e5046.html) and neighboring [Tono](e5060.html) along route 35. A [rental car](e2024.html) is required to access the site as there is no public transportation. It is about a 40 minute drive from either central Kamaishi or Tono.

[How to get to and around Kamaishi](e5046.html#section_get_there)