---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5026.html
title: Sanriku Coast\: Access, Orientation and Transportation
description: Access, Orientation and Transportation around the Sanriku Coast.
keywords: sanriku, region, access, orientation, transportation, transport, directions, get there, train, bus, expressway
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 469
char_count: 3791
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:25:24
---

### How to access the Sanriku Coast

The [Sanriku Coast](e5025.html) covers a large geographic area that extends from [Aomori](/list/e1202.html) to [Iwate](/list/e1204.html) and [Miyagi](/list/e1206.html) prefectures. As such, there is no single access point for the entire region. Instead, most people will enter the coastal areas via one of three major cities, [Sendai](e5150.html), Ichinoseki or [Morioka](e5050.html), which lie along the [Tohoku Shinkansen](e2018_tohoku.html).

Please see the individual city pages for access details:

* [Shiogama](e5041.html#section_get_there)
* [Matsushima](e5105.html)
* [Ishinomaki](e5040.html#section_get_there)
* [Minamisanriku](e5039.html#section_get_there)
* [Kesennuma](e5036.html#section_get_there)
* [Rikuzentakata](e5038.html#section_get_there)
* [Kamaishi](e5046.html#section_get_there)
* [Miyako](e5044.html#section_get_there)

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](/e/e2196.html).

The Sanriku Coast stretches over 250 kilometers from north to south. Before the [2011 earthquake and tsunami](e5027.html), railways operated almost along the entire coastline; however, some sections of these train lines were turned into bus lines after the tsunami. Two railway companies operate lines along the coast: JR East and Sanriku Railway:

* **Japan Railways (JR East)**
    
  Instead of repairing damaged coastal lines, JR East transformed the train lines south of Ofunato (Sakari Station) into rapid [bus](e2015.html) lines (BRT), which partially use dedicated roads converted from former railway tracks. The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html), [Seishun 18 Kippu](e2362.html) and some other regional JR passes are valid on these buses. JR East also operates the train lines that connect coastal cities with the interior.
* **Sanriku Railway**
    
  This private railway company operates the train line that follows most of [Iwate](/list/e1204.html)'s coast between Ofunato (Sakari Station) and Kuji, providing scenic and interesting scenery along many sections of its 163 kilometer long route. JR passes are not valid on this railway line.

Even before March 2011, public transportation along the Sanriku Coast had been rather infrequent and slow. Therefore, [rental cars](e2024.html) can provide a lot of comfort and flexibility. Rental car outlets are found in [Morioka](e5050.html), Ichinoseki and [Sendai](e5150.html), as well as in many of the smaller cities in the region. Driving along the Sanriku Coast has become considerably faster with the completion of the Sanriku Expressway that follows the coast. The [expressway](e2354.html) is toll-free beyond [Matsushima](e5100.html).

JR bus along its dedicated road in Kesennuma