---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6860.html
title: Shiretoko Drift Ice (Ryuhyo)
description: Visitor guide for the drift ice in Shiretoko during winter.
keywords: shiretoko, drift, ice, ryuhyo
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 379
char_count: 2766
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:15:11
---

Drift ice along the eastern coast of the Shiretoko Peninsula

Hokkaido's northeastern coast, including the [Shiretoko Peninsula](e6850.html), is the southernmost region of the northern hemisphere to see [drifting sea ice](e2269.html) (流氷, ryūhyō) during winter. Drifting across the Sea of Okhotsk from northeastern Russia, the ice usually appears along the peninsula by late January and disappears again by early April. The best timing to view the ice is typically around the second half of February.

Under good conditions, drift ice can be seen from the coastal road on the peninsula's western coast. Furthermore, the ice can be enjoyed by participating in various ice drift related tours from [Utoro](e6857.html), including "ice walk tours" in which tour participants, dressed in dry suits, are led out onto the ice by guides. Or, if there is not much solid ice, the tours can involve more swimming than walking. Tours usually take two hours, cost around 7,000 to 12,000 yen and can be booked through one's hotel or websites such as [Klook](https://www.klook.com/activity/88891-1-hour-join-ice-walking-hokkaido/).

[Rausu](e6859.html) on the peninsula's eastern coast usually receives less drift ice than Utoro. Nevertheless, drift ice and bird watching cruises (1 hour for 5,000 yen, or 2.5 hours for 12,000 or 9,000 yen depending on whether you bring an SLR camera or not) are operated from February to early March, allowing for various sea birds, including eagles, to be observed.

An ice walk tour in Utoro that involved more swimming than walking due to a lack of solid ice

[How to get to and around Shiretoko National Park](e6854.html)