---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6035.html
title: Usui Pass Observation Platform
description: Visitor guide for the Usui Pass Observation Platform in Karuizawa, from where nice views of Mount Asama can be seen on clear days.
keywords: karuizawa, usui, pass, observation, platform, asama, gunma, usui toge, miharadai
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1940
char_count: 12760
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:18:37
---

The Usui Pass Observation Platform (碓氷峠見晴台, Usui Tōge Miharashidai) is located about four kilometers northeast of the [Kyu-Karuizawa](e6032.html) town center, straddling the border of [Gunma](/list/e1209.html) and [Nagano](/list/e1216.html) prefectures. Beautiful views over the mountains of Gunma Prefecture on one side and Mount Asama on the other side can be enjoyed from this observation platform.

Nearby is the Kumano Kotai Shrine (熊野皇大神社, Kumano Kōtai Jinja) which interestingly sits on the border of Gunma and Nagano as well. There are three halls at the [shrine](e2059.html): the main hall (hongu) sits on top of the border, the Nachi hall on the Nagano side to the left, and the Shingu Hall on the Gunma side to the right. The Kumano Kotai Shrine is a branch shrine of the [Kumano Sanzan](e4950.html) shrines on the Kii Peninsula.

Kumano Kotai Shrine

From late April to late November, a red retro [bus](e2015.html) for tourists (Karuizawa Aka Bus) operates about once per hour between the Manpei Hotel, the [Karuizawa Ginza](e6032.html#ginza) and the Usui Pass Observation Platform. The fare is 500 yen per ride.

A [taxi](e2021.html) ride from Karuizawa Station takes about ten minutes and costs around 2000 yen one way. Alternatively, the observation platform can be reached in a 40-50 minute uphill walk along the road from the [Karuizawa Ginza](e6032.html#ginza) shopping street.

[How to get to and around Karuizawa](e6031.html)