---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6318.html
title: Atami Castle (Atamijo)
description: Visitor guide for Atami Castle, a reconstructed castle in Atami.
keywords: atami, castle, izu, peninsula, trick, art, museum
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1685
char_count: 10920
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:17:10
---

Atami Castle (熱海城, Atamijō) was built as a tourist attraction in 1959 on a mountaintop overlooking [Atami](e6317.html) despite the fact that the city historically never had such a castle. The touristy concrete complex houses an exhibition about the different [castles](e2296.html) of Japan. Visitors can also dress up in [Edo Period](e2128.html) costumes and try solving Japanese riddles. A game center and erotic [ukiyo-e](e2291.html) exhibition is located in the building's basement.

Atami Castle stands 100 meters above sea level, and its top floor offers panoramic views over Atami and Sagami Bay. The castle grounds are a popular spot to see [cherry blossoms](e2011.html) typically around late March and early April, and [fireworks](e2267.html) which are held on about a dozen days spread across the year, particularly during the summer holidays. A trick art museum stands next door.

View from the observatory

Atami Castle is a stop on the [Yuyu Sightseeing Loop Bus](e6317.html#section_get_there) (about 15 minutes from Atami Station, 300 yen per ride or 800 yen for a 1-day pass, currently operating on weekends only). Alternatively, the castle is a short walk away from the top station of the Atami Ropeway (400 yen one way, 700 yen round trip) which connects the castle to the port area below. The lower station of the Atami Ropeway can be reached by a ten minute [taxi](e2021.html) ride from Atami Station (about 1500 yen one way).

[How to get to and around Atami](e6317.html#section_get_there)
  
[How to get to and around the Izu Peninsula](e6305.html)