---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6702.html
title: Otaru City Museum
description: Visitor guide for the Otaru City Museum, which consists of two separate museums.
keywords: otaru, city, museum, history, nature, canal, hokkaido, train, rail, yard
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1583
char_count: 10318
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:35:48
---

Canal Building

The Otaru City Museum is made up of two separate museums: a conventional history museum beside [Otaru Canal](e6701.html) and a less centrally located railway museum on the grounds of a railway yard. These city operated museums are a good place to learn about [Otaru](e6700.html)'s history and the early days of the development of [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html).

Housed in a former warehouse next to the [canal](e6701.html), the **Canal Building** (運河館, Ungakan) is located within the city's main tourist area. The museum covers broadly the history and nature of Otaru, recounting the times of Hokkaido's native Ainu people as well as the city's preservation movement during the 1970s. There are many models and displays, which are explained in an English pamphlet.

The **Railway Museum** (本館, Honkan) is located a bit outside the main tourist area on the former site of the terminal of [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html)'s first [railway](e2019.html) line which connected Otaru Port with [Sapporo](e2163.html). Multiple full size trains from various periods are exhibited on a rail yard, while the history of Otaru's railroads, an essential chapter in the city's development, is explained with exhibits and dioramas inside a building.

Railway Museum

The **Canal Building** is located just beside [Otaru Canal](e6701.html), a ten minute walk or a two minute bus ride straight down the main road from Otaru Station. The **Railway Museum** is a further 15-20 minute walk westwards, but can also be accessed by bus number 2 or 10 from the station. Get off at Sōgō Hakubutsukan (総合博物館, 10 minutes, 240 yen one way, about every 20 minutes).

[How to get to and around Otaru](e6705.html)