---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6033.html
title: Naka-Karuizawa
description: Visitor guide for Naka-Karuizawa, a classy and romantic area well-suited to spend a relaxing time at.
keywords: Naka-Karuizawa, town, sezon, senju, museum, hoshino, resort, hoshinoyu, tonbonoyu, harunire, terrace, taliesan, shiozawa, stone church, ishinokyokai
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2437
char_count: 16381
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:18:35
---

Harunire Terrace

Naka-Karuizawa (中軽井沢) is a secondary town center four kilometers west of [Kyu-Karuizawa](e6032.html). It has fewer [shops](e2450.html) and [restaurants](e2036.html) than Kyu-Karuizawa, but offers several other sites of interest. In particular, the Hoshino Resort area has an elegant atmosphere integrated into the woods, offering chic restaurants, shops and a hot spring bath. Naka-Karuizawa further offers some [museums](e2428.html) and attractive parks with recreation space.

### Hoshino Resort

Hoshino Resort encompasses the vacation accommodations Hoshinoya and Hotel Bleston Court, the unique Stone Church, the fashionable dining area Harunire Terrace, and a [hot spring](e2292.html) bath house Tonbo no Yu.

* 

  Hoshino Onsen

  Tonbo no Yu Hours: 10:00 to 22:00 (entry until 21:15)  
  Tonbo no Yu Closures: No closing days  
  Tonbo no Yu Admission: 1350 yen (1550 yen during peak season)

  Hoshino Onsen is the [hot spring](e2292.html) at the center of the Hoshino Resort. Its waters can be enjoyed at the Tonbo no Yu public bath house, which offers elegant gender-segregated indoor and outdoor pools. Nearby stands the Hoshinoya (see photo to the left), a leading resort hotel in Karuizawa with more hot spring bathing for staying guests.
* 

  Harunire Terrace

  Shops hours: Varies by establishment but typically from 10:00 to 18:00  
  Restaurant hours: Varies by establishment but typically from 11:00 to 22:00

  Harunire Terrace is a trendy, upmarket [shopping](e2450.html) and dining area built on a wooden terrace and surrounded by the forest. It features an array of [restaurants](e2036.html) and boutiques, housed in attractive rows of shops with wooden facades. Harunire Terrace can get quite crowded during meal times, especially over weekends.
* 

  Stone Church

  Hours: 10:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: when used for weddings  
  Admission: Free

  The Stone Church is an excellent work of [architecture](e2111.html). The artistic stone structure blends flawlessly into the surrounding woods; its appearance like a scene from a fairy tale, inviting people to take a closer look. The church's interior is equally imaginative and charming - the reason why this is a popular venue for weddings. When not used for weddings, the Stone Church is open to the public.

### Others

* 

  Hiroshi Senju Museum

  Hours: 9:30 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Dec 26 through February; Tuesdays (except during peak seasons)  
  Admission: 1500 yen

  The museum assimilates the creations of renowned painter Senju Hiroshi seamlessly into the venue, which is a work of art in itself with its innovative [architecture](e2111.html) designed by Nishizawa Ryue (who also created the [Teshima Art Museum](e5440.html)). A combination of natural light and darkness is used to evoke varying visual experiences. Senju Hiroshi is best known for his paintings of waterfalls.
* 

  Karuizawa Taliesin

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (from 10:00 to 16:00 in December and January)  
  Closed: [New Year](e2062.html) holidays  
  Admission: 900 yen (separate fees for museums and activities)

  Karuizawa Taliesin is a big park with a pond (Lake Shiozawa) at its center that offers several minor museums and a variety of recreation facilities. Some leisure activities that can be enjoyed here are tennis, miniature golf, go-carting, boating and strolls along the many walking paths. The park offers pleasant [autumn colors](e2014.html) each fall around early to mid November.
* 

  Sezon Museum of Modern Art

  Temporarily closed until April 2026  
  Hours: 10:00 to 18:00 (entry until 17:30)  
  Closed: Thursdays except in August and on [national holidays](e2062.html).  
  Admission: 1500 yen

  Sezon Museum houses a sizable collection of twentieth-century art by international and local artists. The museum showcases permanent pieces of modern and [contemporary art](e2115.html) and hosts temporary exhibitions with various themes.

Naka-Karuizawa Station is the transport hub of the Naka-Karuizawa area. It is connected to Karuizawa Station by [trains](e2016.html) on the Shinano Railway line (5 minutes, 230 yen, 1-2 departures per hour), town loop buses (15 minutes, 200 yen, one departure every 1-2 hours), and by Seibu buses (350 yen, 15 minutes) that continue from Naka-Karuizawa Station in the direction of the Hoshino Resort, [Onioshidashi Park](e6036.html) and [Manza Onsen](e7495.html).

The Sezon Museum is a ten minute walk from the Sengataki Onsen Iriguchi bus stop (千ヶ滝温泉入口) along the Seibu bus line. To get to the Hiroshi Senju Museum, take the town loop bus from Naka-Karuizawa Station and get off at the Toriihara-danchimae bus stop (鳥井原団地前, 5 minutes, 130 yen), from where it is a ten minute walk to the museum. The same bus makes a detour to Shiozawa Lake at Karuizawa Taliesin twice a day (10-15 minutes, 200 yen).

Naka-Karuizawa Town can also be explored on on [bicycles](e2210.html). Rental shops can be found close to Naka-Karuizawa Station, charging around 1000 yen per day.

[How to get to and around Karuizawa](e6031.html)