---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6780.html
title: Ginsendai and Mount Akadake
description: Visitor guide for Ginsendai, one of the trailheads for hiking Hokkaido's Daisetsuzan National Park.
keywords: ginsendai, akadake, mount, daisetsuzan, taisetsuzan, hiking, autumn, fall, color, leaf, leaves, colors
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 640
char_count: 4436
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:13:06
---

Ginsendai's famous, colorful slope is reached in about 20-30 minutes from the trailhead

Ginsendai (銀泉台) is one of multiple trailheads that lead into [Daisetsuzan National Park](e6775.html). It is one of the first places in Japan (and even within the national park) to see [autumn colors](e2014.html).

Ginsendai is located at around 1500 meters above sea level on the eastern side of the national park. It is connected to the main road by a 15 kilometer long, unpaved road and consists of little more than a parking lot and a toilet. During the peak of the [autumn color](e2014.html) season around mid September, the road gets closed to regular traffic, and shuttle buses operate instead.

Hiking trail to Mount Akadake

From Ginsendai, the only [hiking](e2427_where.html) trail leads to the peak of Mount Akadake. It is an attractive, although steep ascent that takes about three hours one way and requires no advanced mountaineering skills or equipment. Roughly 20-30 minutes into the trail hikers come across a famous slope which is almost completely covered by [nanakamado](e2014_trees.html) bushes and other vegetation that turns into vibrant colors around mid September, making it one of the first places in all of Japan to see [autumn colors](e2014.html) each year.

Some of the less ambitious hikers return to the parking lot after just seeing that colorful slope, but the trail leads further up the mountain across bushland, offering rewarding views down onto the forest covered hills below and up the volcanic slopes. After a few particularly steep passages, hikers arrive at Mount Akadake (2078 meters), one of multiple peaks that surround the vast interior of the [Daisetsuzan mountains](e6775.html). From here, well prepared hikers can continue further into the national park.

View from Mount Akadake into the interior of the Daisetsuzan mountains

Ginsendai is accessible from late June to early October via a 15 kilometer unpaved road that forks off National Route 273 around Lake Taisetsuko. The unpaved road is closed to regular traffic for about two weeks during the peak of the [autumn color](e2014.html) season, which usually takes place around mid September (on weekends from September 13-21, 2025). Shuttle buses operate during that period, instead. Ginsendai is not accessible from early October to late June.

Shuttle bus at Ginsendai

### By bus

From July to September, there are two [bus](e2015.html) round trips per day between [Sounkyo](e6777.html) and Ginsendai (60 minutes, 920 yen one way, [how to get to Sounkyo](e6777.html)). During the road closure in autumn, the number of round trips is increased to around six per day (some require a transfer of buses at the "Lakesite" parking lot), and the fare is increased to 1750 yen one way.

### By car

During the road closure in autumn, motorists can park their [car](e2024.html) at the "Lakesite" parking lot at Lake Taisetsuko, from where shuttle buses operate to Ginsendai roughly every 30 minutes between 6:30 and 13:00. In the opposite direction, the [buses](e2015.html) operate until around 16:00. The bus ride costs 1250 yen one way and takes about half an hour. Outside of the road closure period, motorists can use parking lots available at Ginsendai.

[How to get to and around Daisetsuzan National Park](e6779.html)