---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6307.html
title: Ito Travel Guide
description: Visitor guide for Ito, a seaside onsen town on the eastern coast of the Izu Peninsula.
keywords: ito, izu, peninusla, kogen, onsen, travel, sightseeing, guide, trip, visitor, tourist, tourism
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1991
char_count: 12794
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:49:23
---

Ito (伊東, Itō) is a famous [hot spring](e2292.html) resort town on the eastern coast of the [Izu Peninsula](e6310.html). Due to its easy accessibility from [Tokyo](e2164.html), the town is quite built-up, but also offers some historic buildings in its center, such as the [Tokaikan](e6316.html), a former [ryokan](e2029.html) open to the public. Outside the town center, Ito offers quite impressive natural scenery with its cliffy coast and hilly terrain.

Ten kilometers south of central Ito lies Izu Kogen, a popular villa district and sightseeing destination with small museums, restaurants, [Mount Omuro](e6315.html) and the beautiful [Jogasaki Coast](e6308.html).

* 

  [Tokaikan Former Ryokan](e6316.html)

  Hours: 9:00 to 21:00  
  Closed: Third Tuesday of each month, January 1  
  Admission: 200 yen

  Established in 1928, the [Tokaikan](e6316.html) is a former [ryokan](e2029.html) in the center of Ito that is now open to the public for viewing. Visitors are allowed to explore the wooden building's corridors and former guest rooms freely and enjoy a tea at its tea room.
* 

  [Jogasaki Coast](e6308.html)

  The [Jogasaki Coast](e6308.html) is a craggy coastline south of central Ito. It can be followed along an approximately ten kilometer long hiking trail with a lighthouse and a 48 meter long suspension bridge in the middle, although it is also possible to walk much shorter portions of the trail.
* 

  [Mount Omuro](e6315.html)

  Lift hours: 9:00 to 17:15 (until 16:15 from October to mid March)  
  Lift closed: No closing days  
  Lift admission: 1000 yen for a round trip

  [Mount Omuro](e6315.html), the icon of Izu Kogen, is an extinct volcano covered in grass. Standing at 580 meters with a diameter of 300 meters, visitors have to take a chair lift up in order to enjoy 360 degree panoramic views of the surroundings. Mount Fuji and the Izu Islands can be seen when visibility is good.
* 

  [Izu Cactus Park](e6309.html)

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (until 16:00 from November to February)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 2700 yen

  [Izu Cactus Park](e6309.html) is a stone's throw away from [Mount Omuro](e6315.html). There are many cactus varieties as well as animals at the park.

### How to get to Ito

Ito can be accessed directly from [Tokyo Station](e3037.html) by the JR Odoriko limited express (100 minutes, about 4500 yen one way, 1 train/hour) or by frequently departing trains from [Atami](e6317.html) (20 minutes, 330 yen by local train). The trip is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), [JR Tokyo Wide Pass](e2361_06.html), [JR East Nagano Niigata Area Pass](e2361_nagano_niigata.html), [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html) and [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html).

### How to get around Ito

Ito Station is located in the city center of Ito. It is the border station between the JR Ito Line that leads north to [Atami](e6317.html) and the Izukyu Railway that leads south to [Shimoda](e6300.html). Because the Izukyu Railway is not JR, the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) is not valid south of Ito. However, the [JR Tokyo Wide Pass](e2361_06.html), [JR East Nagano Niigata Area Pass](e2361_nagano_niigata.html), [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html) and [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html) are valid also south of Ito thanks to a special agreement.

The [train](e2019.html) is useful to travel between Ito and Izu Kogen, five stations south of Ito (20 minutes, 680 yen one way), but many of the area's sightseeing spots are not located near train stations. Fortunately, the [bus](e2015.html) service around Ito is quite good, and there are two bus passes offered for Ito: the **Izu Kogen Jogasaki 1-Day Pass** costs 1250 yen and covers the Izu Kogen area and the [Jogasaki Coast](e6308.html), while the **Ito Izu Kogen 2-Day Pass** costs 1800 yen and additionally includes central Ito. The passes can be purchased at Izu Kogen Station and Ito Station, respectively.

[How to get to and around the Izu Peninsula](e6305.html)