---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6720.html
title: Niseko Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Niseko, a popular snow resort town in Hokkaido
keywords: niseko, hokkaido, ski, snowboard, resort, grand, hirafu, annupuri, higashiyama, village
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1567
char_count: 10683
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 11:40:17
---

Niseko (ニセコ) is the most famous [ski resort](e2262.html) in Japan, known for having tons of light powder snow, spectacular backcountry and a large number of foreigners - especially Australians - who in recent decades have been responsible for popularizing the resort area with the skiing and snowboarding community outside of Japan. As a result, Niseko's resorts are very accessible to foreign visitors, which they keep busy with plenty of long ski runs, endless powder and a number of after-ski activities.

In addition to kilometers of ski trails, many of Niseko's resorts offer winter adventure seekers the option to explore off trail skiing, a relatively uncommon attraction at most other [ski resorts](e2262.html) in Japan. The backcountry can be accessed through special gates around the resorts or experienced on guided tours and helicopter tours. The latter is also possible on nearby Mount Yotei, a nearly perfect volcanic cone, which can be seen from Niseko.

Mount Yotei, seen from the slopes of Grand Hirafu

Niseko's ski resorts are all located on Mount Niseko-Annupuri. Three major resorts, Grand Hirafu, Niseko Village and Annupuri, cover most of the southeastern half of the mountain while a few smaller resorts dot their perimeter. The big three are joined together with each other at the top of the mountain, and it is possible to ski between them, while shuttle buses connect their bases. The **Niseko All Mountain Pass** gives access to all three resorts.

**Grand Hirafu** is the largest of the resorts with about a dozen lifts and a secondary base at Hanazono on the east side of the mountain. Grand Hirafu is the only of the three resorts that has a sizable town area around its main base, Hirafu Town, which is packed with a variety of [hotels](e2025.html), [pensions](e2025_pension.html) and holiday homes. The town also offers an interesting range of [restaurants](e2036.html) and bars with an active nightlife.

Hirafu Town is very foreigner friendly, and an evening stroll about the area will take you past plenty of lively restaurants with the sounds of English voices wafting out. It is almost like visiting a foreign country within Japan, as many of the eateries offer English menus by default and [convenience stores](e2071.html) sell a wider range of imported foods than elsewhere in Japan.

A 15 minute bus ride to the east of Hirafu is the town center of Kutchan with Kutchan Station. The biggest city in the area, Kutchan has more shopping and dining options, but is not as convenient a base for skiers as Hirafu.

Hirafu by night

The next largest resort on the mountain is **Niseko Village** (formerly known as Higashiyama). Located west of Grand Hirafu, Niseko Village offers several hotels, including the Hilton Niseko Village, multiple lodges and a small collection of restaurants, bars and boutiques.

Further west lies **Annupuri** resort. Its ski trails are not quite as steep or as wide as those of the other two resorts, but they also tend to be somewhat less crowded. At Annupuri's base stands a resort hotel and a small collection of pensions and holiday homes. Nearby dining and nightlife options are scarce.

**Moiwa** is a small, fourth ski resort that lies just west of Annupuri. Moiwa is not covered by the Niseko All Mountain Pass, nor is it possible to ski from Moiwa to the other resorts. As such it tends to be less crowded and is popular among those who prefer a smaller sized resort and among beginners. A few hotels and pensions are spread near Moiwa's base, but they do not create much of a town feeling.

About a 15-25 minute bus ride from Niseko's western resorts lies the town center of Niseko with Niseko Station. The small town does not offer many dining or nightlife options, nor is it a convenient base for skiers.

### Passes

Niseko All Mountain Pass

The Niseko All Mountain Pass includes access to all areas of the Niseko Grand Hirafu, Hanazono, Niseko Village and Annupuri resorts.

Tickets

Regular season
12,000 yen (1-day)

Shoulder season
8,400 yen (1-day)

Late season
6,000 yen (1-day)

### Resorts

Niseko Grand Hirafu

Grand Hirafu is the largest of the three resorts, and as such it has the most variety of runs. Hanazono, its satellite base, is located to the east side of the mountain near Kutchan Town with a slightly shorter season. Lift ticket prices are lowered during the shoulder seasons and if purchased online.

Season\*

**Late November to early May**  
(November 29, 2025 to May 6, 2026)

Lifts

13 lifts

Tickets

Full day
11,000 yen

Half day
7,800 yen

Nighter
6,000 yen

Access

Bus/Train
15 minutes by bus from Kutchan Station.

Car
10 kilometers from Kutchan Town Center.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

Niseko Village

Niseko Village is located in between Grand Hirafu and Annupuri resorts, and has several hotels located at its base. Lift ticket prices are lowered during the shoulder seasons.

Season\*

**Late November to mid April**  
(November 29, 2025 to April 12, 2026)

Lifts

8 lifts

Tickets

Full day
9700 yen

Access

Bus/Train
30 minutes by bus from Kutchan Station.

Car
6 kilometers from Niseko Town Center.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

Niseko Annupuri

Annupuri is the westernmost of the resorts and is not quite as steep as the other two. Lift ticket prices are lowered during the shoulder seasons.

Season\*

**Late November to early May**  
(November 29, 2025 to May 6, 2026)

Lifts

6 lifts

Tickets

Full day
7000 yen

Half day
6000 yen

Nighter
3300 yen

Access

Bus/Train
45 minutes by bus from Kutchan Station.

Car
8 kilometers from Niseko Town Center.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

From/To:

SapporoShin-Chitose AirportRusutsu

From December to March, multiple bus companies, including Hokkaido Chuo Bus, Niseko Bus and Hokkaido Access Network, run direct [buses](e2015.html) between hotels in [Sapporo](e2163.html)'s city center and Niseko. Some buses also serve Sapporo Station. In the Niseko area the buses stop at the three major ski resorts of Hirafu, Niseko Village and Annupuri.

The ride takes between 2.5 and 4 hours depending on pick-up location and destination. The one way fare is 6000 yen. Discounted round trip tickets and packages which combine the bus ride with lift tickets are also available.

Outside of the winter season, there are fewer buses, and the fare is only around 2500 yen.

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

There are infrequent [local and rapid](e2016.html) train connections between Sapporo and Kutchan stations, most of which require a transfer of trains at [Otaru](e6700.html). With a favorable connection, the one way trip takes about two hours and costs 2240 yen. The trains are fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and [Hokkaido Rail Pass](e2361_01.html).

Kutchan Station rather than Niseko Station is the region's public transportation hub. From Kutchan Station, there are infrequent [buses](e2015.html) to Hirafu (15 minutes), Niseko Village (30 minutes) and Annupuri (45 minutes, winter only).

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

Three sizable towns are located around Mount Niseko-Annupuri: Kutchan, Hirafu and Niseko.

**Kutchan Town** is the largest and most city-like of the three and serves as a transportation hub with Kutchan Station at its center. From the station there are infrequent [buses](e2015.html) to nearby Hirafu (20 minutes, 500 yen) and Niseko Village (35 minutes, 800 yen).

**Hirafu Town** at the base of the Grand Hirafu resort is the most convenient and popular base for skiers. It is directly served by buses from Sapporo and New Chitose Airport. There is also a Hirafu Station, but be warned that it is not located close to the town and is poorly served by public transportation.

**Niseko Town** with Niseko Station is closer to the Annupuri and Niseko Village resorts, but does not offer good public transportation options.

That said, many people who visit Niseko will take buses from [Sapporo](e2163.html) or [Shin-Chitose Airport](e2435.html) directly to the ski resorts and will bypass Kutchan and Niseko towns altogether.

During the winter season, hourly **Niseko United Shuttle Buses** operate between Hirafu, Niseko Village and Annupuri resorts. Niseko All Mountain Pass holders may use the shuttles for free, while non-pass holders may use the buses by paying regular fares (a few hundred yen based on distance).

The area around Niseko Station, Niseko Village, Annupuri and Moiwa is served by an on-demand bus, the **Nikotto Bus**. It costs 200 yen per ride and has to be reserved by phone.

In addition, many [hotels](e2025.html) and pensions in the Niseko area provide their staying guests with complimentary shuttle services to and from the ski resorts and nearest railway station. Inquire with your accommodation.