---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6751.html
title: Jigokudani (Hell Valley)
description: Visitor guide for Noboribetsu's Jigokudani or Hell Valley.
keywords: noboribetsu, jigoku, jigokudani, hell, valley
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1801
char_count: 12137
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:13:20
---

Jigokudani

Jigokudani (地獄谷) or "Hell Valley" is a spectacular, appropriately named valley just above the town of Noboribetsu Onsen, which displays hot steam vents, sulfurous streams and other volcanic activity. It is a main source of [Noboribetsu](e6750.html)'s [hot spring](e6752.html) waters.

From the valley, there are attractive walking trails through the wooded hills above [Noboribetsu](e6750.html). If you follow them for about 20 to 30 minutes, you will get to Oyunuma, a sulfurous pond with a surface temperature of 50 degrees Celsius and a smaller, even hotter, mud pond nearby.

Oyunuma Pond

Flowing out of Oyunuma is a river called Oyunumagawa. Still hot, the river flows through the forest, making for an out-of-this-world sight. It is possible to follow the river for several hundred meters and enjoy a natural foot bath (ashiyu) along the way.

The [autumn color](e2014.html) season in [Noboribetsu](e6750.html) usually reaches its peak in mid October, adding further colors to the already spectacular scenery. During winter, some of the walking trails in the hills above the Jigokudani might not always be passable.

Oyunumagawa Natural Foot Bath

The Jigokudai is located directly north of Noboribetsu's hot spring town, a five minute walk from the Noboribetsu Onsen bus terminal.

[How to get to and around Noboribetsu](e6753.html)