---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6090.html
title: Hakuba Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Hakuba, a large and popular ski resort in Nagano Prefecture, Japan.
keywords: hakuba, nagano, japan, ski, happo, skiing, snowboard, winter, snow, resort, resorts, travel, guide, sightseeing, tourist, tourism, visitor, information
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2673
char_count: 17639
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:48:18
---

Hakuba (白馬), located in the [Northern Alps](e6043.html) of [Nagano Prefecture](/list/e1216.html), is one of Japan's most popular [ski areas](e2262.html), offering good snow and several large ski resorts to choose from.

During the 1998 Nagano Winter [Olympics](e2260.html), Hakuba gained world wide recognition as it hosted several Olympic competitions, including alpine (downhill, super g, and combination) and nordic (ski jump and cross country) events. Today some of the Olympic facilities remain in use, such as the Hakuba Ski Jumping Stadium. There is also the Hakuba Olympic Village Memorial Hall, a small but interesting museum, located within walking distance of the ski jump.

On the slopes of Hakuba 47

Hakuba can be reached relatively easily not only from [Tokyo](e2164.html), but also from the [Nagoya](e2155.html) and [Kansai](/list/e1105.html) regions. While it is possible to do a day trip from Tokyo, Hakuba is best enjoyed in an overnight or multi-night visit. In addition to skiing and snowboarding, there are [hot springs](e2292.html) (onsen) available around town.

Ten of the major resorts (including all of those listed on this page) have teamed up to offer the "Hakuba Valley Ticket" to be used at any of the participating resorts. A one-day ticket costs 10,400 yen. Longer validities and other combination tickets are also available, while some local hotels offer further discounts to staying guests.

Happoone

Happoone is the largest and most famous resort in Hakuba. In 1998 it hosted the downhill, super g, and combination ski events of the Nagano Winter Olympics. It is also the resort located closest to the village center and Hakuba Station. Lift tickets are cheaper in the shoulder seasons.

Season\*

**Early December to early May**  
(December 1, 2025 to May 6, 2026)

Lifts

19 lifts

Tickets

Full day
8700 yen

Half day
7200 yen

Nighter
n/a

Access

Bus/Train
6 minutes by bus from Hakuba Station.

Car
2.5 kilometers west of Hakuba village center.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

### Hakuba Goryu and Hakuba 47 group

A ticket bought at either Hakuba Goryu or Hakuba 47 can be used at both resorts.

Hakuba Goryu

Hakuba Goryu is located relatively close to central Hakuba village and is located on the same mountain as and connected to Hakuba 47. Lift tickets cost less if purchased online.

Season\*

**Late November to early May**

Lifts

12 lifts

Tickets

Full day
9500 yen

Half day
8000 yen

Nighter
6500 yen

Access

Bus/Train
5 minutes by shuttle bus from Kamishiro Station.

Car
4.5 kilometers southwest of Hakuba village center.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

Hakuba 47

Together with its larger brother Hakuba Goryu, Hakuba 47 makes up the second most popular resorts in the area. Lift tickets cost less if purchased online.

Season\*

**Late November to early May**

Lifts

5 lifts

Tickets

Full day
9500 yen

Half day
8000 yen

Access

Bus/Train
10 minutes by shuttle bus from Hakuba Station.

Car
4.5 kilometers southwest of Hakuba village center.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

### Hakuba Norikura and Hakuba Cortina Group

Located just outside of the Hakuba village limits. Tickets cover both resorts, which are located adjacent to and connected to each other.

Hakuba Norikura

Hakuba Norikura is located just outside of the Hakuba village limits next to Tsugaike Koen.

Season\*

**Mid December to early April**  
(December 13, 2025 to April 5, 2026)

Lifts

9 lifts

Tickets

Full day
6200 yen

Half day
5400 yen

Nighter
N/A

Access

Bus/Train
20 minutes by bus from Minami-Otari Station.

Car
10 kilometers north of Hakuba village center.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

Hakuba Cortina

Hakuba Cortina is the furthest major resort from central Hakuba. It is just next to and partnered with Hakuba Norikura.

Season\*

**Mid December to late March**  
(December 13, 2025 to March 30, 2026)

Lifts

6 lifts

Tickets

Full day
6200 yen

Half day
5400 yen

Nighter
2500 yen

Access

Bus/Train
20 minutes by bus from Minami-Otari Station.

Car
12 kilometers north of Hakuba village center.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

### Other Resorts

Hakuba Iwatake

Hakuba Iwatake is located close to central Hakuba and not as high as the neighboring resorts.

Season\*

**Mid December to late March**  
(December 19, 2025 to March 29, 2026)

Lifts

9 lifts

Tickets

Full day
7000 yen

Half day
6500 yen

Access

Bus/Train
15-20 minutes by bus or shuttle bus from Hakuba Station.  
Served by express buses from/to Nagano.

Car
3 kilometers north of Hakuba village center.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

Tsugaike Kogen

Tsugaike Kogen is the second largest resort in the area. It is located next to Hakuba Iwatake, just outside the Hakuba village limits. Lift tickets cost less in the shoulder seasons and if purchased online.

Season\*

**Late November to early May**  
(until May 6, 2026)

Lifts

14 lifts

Tickets

Full day
8200 yen

Half day
6500 yen

Nighter
no nighter in 2025/2026

Access

Bus/Train
30 minutes by bus or shuttle bus from Hakuba Station.  
Served by express buses from/to Nagano.

Car
7 kilometers north of Hakuba village center.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

### From Tokyo

#### By shinkansen and bus via Nagano

Take the [JR Hokuriku Shinkansen](e2018_nagano.html) from [Tokyo](e2164.html) to [Nagano](e6000.html) (100 minutes, 8000 yen) and then an [express bus](e2366.html) from Nagano to Hakuba (60-90 minutes, 3500-3800 yen), where the bus stops at Hakuba Station and directly at the base of several ski resorts. The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) covers the shinkansen trip but not the bus journey.

#### By train via Matsumoto

Take the JR Azusa limited express train from [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s Shinjuku Station to [Matsumoto](e6050.html) and transfer to a local train on the JR Oito Line to Hakuba. Some Azusa limited express trains run all the way to Hakuba. The one way journey takes about 4 to 4.5 hours and costs around 8000 yen. It is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html).

#### By highway bus from Tokyo

Several bus companies operate [buses](e2366.html) between [Tokyo](e2164.html) (Busta Shinjuku or Tokyo Station) and Hakuba, where the buses stop in the village center and at the bases of selected ski resorts (in summer they stop at the Hakuba Happo Bus Terminal). The one way journey takes around 5 hours and costs about 5,000 to 10,000 yen depending on the company and day of travel. Online reservations for some of the buses can be made on the [Willer website](https://willer-travel.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/nagano/hakuba/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184).

### From Nagoya/Kyoto/Osaka

Take the JR Shinano limited express train from [Nagoya](e2155.html) to [Matsumoto](e6050.html) and transfer to a train along the Oito Line to Hakuba. From Nagoya, the one way journey takes about 3.5 hours and costs around 7000 yen. It is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html).

[How to get from Kyoto to Nagoya](e3302.html?aFROM=2155_2158)
  
[How to get from Osaka to Nagoya](e3302.html?aFROM=2155_2157)