---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6776.html
title: Asahidake Onsen
description: Travel for Asahidake Onsen and Mount Asahidake in Hokkaido's Daisetsuzan National Park.
keywords: Asahidake, Onsen, hot, spring, spa, daisetsuzan, mount, national, park
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 480
char_count: 3808
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:13:04
---

Mount Asahidake

Asahidake Onsen (旭岳温泉) is a small [hot spring](e2292.html) resort at the foot of [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html)'s highest mountain, Mount Asahidake (2290 meters), and one of the most pleasant bases for exploring [Daisetsuzan National Park](e6775.html).

The small village consists of about a dozen buildings, wooden lodges, a beautiful youth hostel and two or three large hotels. Shopping and dining opportunities are limited to the hotels and the ropeway station. For weather forecasts, maps, explanations about the national park and other tourist information, head to the Asahidake Visitor Center near the ropeway station.

Asahidake Onsen

The Asahidake Ropeway lifts visitors from Asahidake Onsen to within a two hour hike of Mount Asahidake's summit. Even though the ropeway's upper station is "only" 1600 meters above sea level, it stands in a treeless alpine tundra landscape with alpine flowers in summer.

There are many [hiking opportunities](e2427_where.html) in the Asahidake area from late June through September. For beginners, there is an attractive, 30-60 minute circular trail around the ropeway's upper station, which passes some ponds and sulfurous vents, indicating that the whole [Daisetsuzan](e6775.html) mountain range is of volcanic origin. There are also some easy walking trails around the village.

Walking trail around Asahidake Onsen

Somewhat more difficult is the ascent to the summit of Asahidake which takes about two hours. The classic 1-2 day tour for advanced hikers continues from the summit of Asahidake to the summit of [Kurodake](e6783.html), from where one can descend to [Sounkyo Onsen](e6777.html). Other multi-day trekking tours through the national park can also be started from Asahidake Onsen.

Asahidake is the first place in Japan to see [autumn colors](e2014.html) and [snow](e2265.html) each year. The autumn color season attracts a lot of visitors in mid September, while [skiing](e2262.html) is possible on the mountain from December into early May.

Climbing Mount Asahidake

### By bus

Asahidake Onsen can be reached by bus from Asahikawa Station (1800 yen one way) and Asahikawa Airport (1270 yen one way):

|  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Asahikawa Station | 07:15 | 09:15 | 12:15 | 14:15 |
| Asahikawa Airport | 08:00 | 10:00 | 13:00 | 15:00 |
| Asahidake Onsen | 09:03 | 11:03 | 14:03 | 16:03 |

|  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Asahidake Onsen | 09:55 | 11:55 | 14:55 | 16:55 |
| Asahikawa Airport | 10:50 | 12:50 | 15:50 | 17:50 |
| Asahikawa Station | 11:33 | 13:33 | 16:33 | 18:33 |

### By car

Asahidake Onsen can be reached by [car](e2024.html) in about one hour from Asahikawa, Asahikawa Airport or [Biei](e6828.html).

[How to get to and around Daisetsuzan National Park](e6779.html)