---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6527.html
title: The Railway Museum in Omiya
description: Visitor guide for the Railway Museum in Saitama, a museum which recounts the history of railway in Japan
keywords: saitama, railway, museum, omiya, jr, east
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1913
char_count: 12496
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:36:58
---

The Railway Museum was opened in 2007 in [Saitama City](e6525.html) by JR East. It recounts the history of [railway in Japan](e2019.html), exhibits many previously used train cars, teaches train operation using interesting simulators, and explains railway technology as it evolved over the years.

The museum's big collection of formerly used [train](e2019.html) cars includes steam and diesel locomotives, and retired [shinkansen](e2018.html), passenger and freight cars. Many of them can be entered or viewed from under. There is also one of Japan's largest dioramas. In another section, railway concepts, science and systems are explained through models and hands-on activities.

Large diorama

The museum also offers multiple, popular train simulators, including a steam locomotive driving simulator and a simulator for train conductors that involves the opening and closing of train doors. The [museum's app](https://www.railway-museum.jp/app/) can be used to reserve slots for many of the simulators, while other simulators can be used on a first-come first-serve basis.

The eatery and rooftop [garden](e2099.html) provide nice views of trains passing by, as the museum stands between the tracks of the JR Takasaki Line and the [Tohoku](e2018_tohoku.html), [Joetsu](e2018_joetsu.html) and [Hokuriku](e2018_nagano.html) shinkansen. There are also play areas for children, as well as a mini shinkansen ride and a small network of tracks for mini trains, which visitors can ride and operate.

Some of the simulators and rides require additional fees.

Seen from the rooftop garden: Shinkansen and New Shuttle trains running by the museum

The Railway Museum is located just beside Tetsudo Hakubutsukan Station, which is reached in a three minute ride from Omiya Station by the New Shuttle (190 yen one way). The New Shuttle ride is not covered by any JR passes except the [JR Tokyo Wide Pass](e2361_06.html).

[How to get to and around Saitama](e6526.html)