---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6032.html
title: Kyu-Karuizawa
description: Visitor guide for Kyu-Karuizawa, which offers lots of opportunities for leisure activities and shopping
keywords: karuizawa, Kyu-Karuizawa, town, jam, ginza, prince, resort, shopping, mall
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2351
char_count: 15755
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:18:28
---

Karuizawa Ginza

Kyu-Karuizawa (旧軽井沢, Kyū-Karuizawa) was formerly a post town along the Nakasendo Route, one of two major road connections that connected the imperial capital [Kyoto](e2158.html) with the shogunal capital Edo (present-day [Tokyo](e2164.html)) during the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868). Today, Kyu-Karuizawa is the main center of the [Karuizawa](e6030.html) resort area.

The town has a pleasant atmosphere with chic [restaurants](e2036.html) and cafes aiming at affording patrons and with forested residential districts made up of holiday villas. Kyu-Karuizawa offers a wide range of shopping opportunities as well, notably at the [Prince Shopping Plaza](e6032.html#prince) and the [Kyu-Karuizawa Ginza](e6032.html#ginza). Visitors can also indulge in some of the many leisure activities available, such as bowling, golf and cycling around town.

### Shopping

* 

  Karuizawa Ginza

  Hours: depend on each shop; typically 10:00 to 18:00  
  Closed: Varying closing days for shops

  Karuizawa offers a wide range of shopping opportunities, including a local version of [Ginza](e3005.html), [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s most famous upmarket shopping district. The Karuizawa Ginza shopping street has a romantic ambiance and is suited for a stroll or for buying souvenirs and local desserts. Jam is a local specialty and many shops here offer it in multiple flavors. Towards the end of the shopping street stands the Shaw Memorial Church, founded in 1895 by a missionary named A.C. Shaw, who popularized Karuizawa as a vacation destination.
* 

  Karuizawa Prince Shopping Plaza

  Hours: 10:00 to 19:00 (varies according to season)  
  Closed: Few unscheduled closing days

  A newer addition to Karuizawa's shopping attractions, the Karuizawa Prince Shopping Plaza is an [outlet mall](e2451.html) for popular brands, outdoor goods, sports wear and trendy items. The mall's pleasant surroundings make it a lovely destination for a walk even if shopping is not on your agenda. There are also a few dining establishments here, which usually operate until later than the shops.

### Nature

* 

  Kumobaike Pond

  Kumobaike is a photogenic pond located about 1.5 kilometers northwest of Karuizawa Station. The pond is a popular spot for viewing [autumn colors](e2014.html), which are typically at their best here around mid October to early November.
* 

  [Usui Pass Observation Platform](e6035.html)

  Beautiful views over the mountains of [Gunma Prefecture](/list/e1209.html) on one side and Mount Asama on the other side can be enjoyed from this observation platform. Nearby Kumano Shrine is also interesting because it straddles the Gunma-Nagano prefectural border.
* 

  Karuizawa Prince Ski Resort

  This is one of the first [ski resorts](e2262_resort.html) in Japan to open each year (November 1, 2025 to March 31, 2026), albeit with man-made snow and only a couple of runs open during the early season. A transition to natural snow usually occurs later in the season depending on snowfall, and more runs become available. The resort might be slightly lacking in terms of size and snow quality, but it is one of the most easily accessible from [Tokyo](e2164.html).

### History

* 

  Former Mikasa Hotel

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Wednesdays from November to mid July (or following day if Wednesday is a [national holiday](e2062.html)), Dec 28 to Jan 3  
  Admission: 1000 yen

  One of Japan's first Western-style hotels, the Mikasa Hotel served travelers to [Karuizawa](e6030.html) from 1906 until 1970. Today, the former hotel is preserved for its heritage and open to the public as a museum.

Kyu-Karuizawa Town can be explored comfortably by [bicycle](e2210.html). Rental shops close to Karuizawa Station and the [Karuizawa Ginza](e6032.html#ginza) offer bicycles at around 1000 yen per day. For good walkers, exploring the town on foot is also pleasant; the walk from Karuizawa Station to the [Former Mikasa Hotel](e6032.html#mikasa) takes just under an hour one way, and stops can be made at various attractions along the way.

Various [buses](e2015.html) travel between Karuizawa Station and the Karuizawa Ginza multiple times per hour (5-10 minutes, 150-160 yen one way), including buses by Kusakaru Kotsu that continue via the [Shiraito Waterfall](e6034.html) (25 minutes, 720 yen) in the direction of [Kusatsu Onsen](e7400.html) and Seibu buses that continue to [Naka-Karuizawa](e6033.html).

[How to get to and around Karuizawa](e6031.html)