---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6401.html
title: Naritasan Temple
description: Visitor guide for Naritasan, a large temple complex in Narita.
keywords: narita, naritasan, shinshoji, temple, japan
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1798
char_count: 12056
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:17:49
---

Naritasan Shinshoji Temple (成田山新勝寺, Naritasan Shinshōji) is a large and highly popular Buddhist [temple](e2058.html) complex in [Narita City](e6400.html), not far from [Narita Airport](e2027.html). It is a great site to visit if you have three or more hours to spend around the airport and wish to catch a glimpse of historic Japan.

Naritasan was built in the year 940 around its main sacred object of worship, a statue of the Buddhist Fudo Myoo deity. Kobo Daishi, the founder of the [Shingon Sect](e2055.html) and one of the most important figures in Japan's religious history, is said to have carved the statue.

Great Pagoda of Peace

A broad variety of [temple buildings](e2058.html) stand on the spacious grounds of Naritasan, including the temple's new and former main halls, a three storied pagoda and a huge Tahoto-style pagoda, named the Great Pagoda of Peace. There is also a pleasant park, which incorporates both, traditional Japanese and European elements.

Part of the fun of visiting Naritasan is its store-lined approach, the **Omotesando**. Stretching over the entire one kilometer distance from the railway stations to the temple, Naritasan's Omotesando is a lively street lined by numerous [restaurants](e2036.html) and stores, that have been selling traditional crafts, foods and souvenirs to pilgrims and tourists for centuries.

Omotesando

Naritasan is a 15-20 minute walk from JR and Keisei Narita stations. Just follow the shop-lined Omotesando street all the way to the temple. The two stations stand about 200 meters apart, and both offer connections to central [Tokyo](e2164.html) and nearby [Narita Airport](e2027.html).

[How to get to and around Narita](e6402.html)