---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6026.html
title: Shiga Kogen Ski Resort
description: Travel guide for the Shiga Kogen Ski Area in eastern Nagano Prefecture, Japan.
keywords: shiga, kogen, shigakogen, ski, area, resort, skiing, snow, snowboard
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2259
char_count: 15026
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:04:40
---

The Shiga Kogen Ski Area (志賀高原, Shiga Kōgen) is a group of over a dozen ski resorts that have joined together to create the largest combined [ski area](e2262.html) in Japan. Shiga Kogen is so large that it would take at least two days to cover it all, yet a single lift ticket gives you access to the nearly 50 lifts, gondolas and ropeways in the area.

Located in the highlands of [Nagano Prefecture](/list/e1216.html), Shiga Kogen is divided broadly into two areas that are joined at a central intersection near the Shiga Kogen Yamanoeki bus stop. The southern area leads to the top of the 2305 meter tall Mount Yokote and has ski runs and [hot springs](e2292.html) along the way to the summit.

The northern area leads to Oku Shiga Kogen and is flanked by 2000 meter high peaks providing an immense area for skiers and snowboarders to explore. The Higashidateyama Resort hosted the slalom and giant slalom events of the [1998 Nagano Winter Olympics](e6002.html).

Skiiers ready to go on the slopes

Lift tickets give you access to all of the resorts in Shiga Kogen, and most of the ski areas are connected such that you can easily travel between them on ski or snowboard; however, there is also a free shuttle bus that connects the various resorts during the ski season.

Accommodation is provided by the many hotels located throughout the area, especially around the central intersection. Shiga Kogen does not have much of a town, so after-ski activities usually take place at the hotel. Entertainment can also be found at the nearby hot spring resort towns of [Shibu Onsen](e6029.html) and [Yudanaka Onsen](e6024.html) or the [Jigokudani Monkey Park](e6025.html), whose wild monkeys bathe in natural hot springs.

Shiga Kogen Snow Resorts

Made up of over a dozen ski resorts, Shiga Kogen is the largest combined ski area in Japan. Enough long runs and varied terrain to keep you busy for at least two days. Lift ticket prices are lower in the shoulder seasons when not all of the resorts may be open.

Season\*

**Early December to early May**  
(December 6, 2025 to May 6, 2026)  
(Some resorts may open earlier)

Lifts

48 lifts

Tickets

Full day
9000 yen

Half day
7000 yen

Nighter
Varies between resorts

Access

Bus/Train
30 minutes by bus from Yudanaka Station.

Car
25 kilometers from Shinshu Nakano Interchange.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

### By local bus from Yudanaka Station

There is approximately one [bus](e2015.html) per hour from Yudanaka Station to Shiga Kogen, stopping at [Shibu Onsen](e6029.html) shortly after leaving Yudanaka. In Shiga Kogen, all buses stop at the Shiga Kogen Yamanoeki bus stop (30 minutes, 1100 yen) before continuing either in the direction of Oku Shiga Kogen or Mount Yokote. In addition, there are free shuttle buses that connect Kogen Yamanoeki bus stop and the various ski resorts with each other.

### By express bus from Nagano Station

Express buses from [Nagano](e6000.html) serve various stops in Shiga Kogen. During the ski season, [buses](e2015.html) depart Nagano Station about once an hour. All buses stop at the Shiga Kogen Yamanoeki bus stop (70 minutes, 3000 yen) where most terminate or continue on to Oku Shiga Kogen. Only one bus per day continues in the direction of Mount Yokote. In addition, there are free shuttle buses that connect Kogen Yamanoeki bus stop and the various ski resorts with each other.

Outside of winter, the express buses between Nagano and Shiga Kogen operate only about once every 2-3 hours. From late April to early November, two round trips per day continue via [Mount Shirane](e7406.html) all the way to [Kusatsu Onsen](e7400.html) (currently not serving Kusatsu due to a volcano-related road closure).

[How to get to and around Yamanouchi](e6027.html)