---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6403.html
title: Boso no Mura Open Air Museum
description: Visitor guide for the Boso no Mura open air museum in Narita.
keywords: narita, boso, no, mura, open, air museum
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1858
char_count: 12438
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:17:45
---

Boso no Mura (房総のむら, Bōsō no mura, "Boso Village") is an [open air museum](e2421.html) that aims to expose its visitors to the traditional local lifestyle and crafts of the Boso Region, which is an old name for the area that roughly corresponds to current [Chiba Prefecture](/list/e1212.html). It reproduces a typical local village of the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868), complete with merchant houses, workshops and farms.

At the various craft workshops in the village, visitors can participate in traditional papermaking, blacksmithing and the tea ceremony or try on a Japanese armor. [Hands-on activities](e2424.html) offered depend on the season and include crop harvesting and bamboo craft making. Four festivals are held during the year, one in each season.

Separating wheat from chaff

A public park with dozens of burial mounds (kofun) from the [Kofun Period](e2131.html) (300-538) surrounds the open air museum. Some artifacts excavated around [Chiba Prefecture](/list/e1212.html) are displayed at the Fudoki-no-oka Shiryokan, an archaeological museum found nearby.

Next to the archaeological museum there are also a few reconstructed pit houses from the [Jomon Period](e2131.html) (13000-300 BC), two reconstructed residences from the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868) and a school from the [Meiji Period](e2130.html) (1868-1912).

Farm land in front of a wealthy farmer's house inside Boso no Mura

Travel between Boso no Mura and [Narita Airport](e2027.html) requires a transfer at Narita Station.

From Narita Station, take a Chiba Kotsu bus bound for Ryukakujidai-Shako and get off at the Ryukakujidai-Ni-Chome bus stop (20 minutes, 430 yen, 2-3 buses/hour), from where the Boso no Mura can be reached in a ten minute walk.

Alternatively, take the JR Narita Line from Narita Station to Ajiki Station (10 minutes, 200 yen, 2 trains/hour) and take a Chiba Kotsu bus bound for Ryukakujidai-Shako. Get off at the Boso no Mura (10 minutes, 230 yen, 1-2 buses/hour) bus stop in front of the museum.

By [car](e2024.html), the Boso no Mura is about a 30 minute drive from [Narita Airport](e2027.html) along toll-free roads.

[How to get to and around Narita](e6402.html)