---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6153.html
title: Tokoji Temple
description: Visitor guide for Tokoji Temple in Hagi, a temple of the Obaku school of Japanese Zen Buddhism
keywords: hagi, tokoji, temple, obaku, zen
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 354
char_count: 2584
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:36:33
---

Tokoji Temple (東光寺, Tōkōji) was founded in 1691 and belongs to the Obaku school of Japanese [Zen Buddhism](e2055.html). Its beautiful wooden temple buildings stand within the tranquil woods east of downtown [Hagi](e6150.html), offering visitors a moment of serenity.

Like most [temples](e2058.html) of the Obaku sect, Tokoji comes with an architectural style that displays more Chinese influence than the average temple, as seen when entering the temple through its red, Chinese-style entrance gate. The approach to the main hall then leads under an even larger gate, the Sanmon Gate, and passes an old bell tower. Tokoji's main hall is also built in Chinese Zen architecture and houses a statue of the historic Buddha (Shaka Nyorai).

Behind the [temple](e2058.html) buildings lies the graveyard of half of the Mori daimyo (feudal lords), who governed from [Hagi](e6150.html) during the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868). The odd numbered daimyo in the succession of Mori lords were buried here, while the first and the even numbered lords were buried at [Daishoin Temple](e6154.html). The burial site makes for quite an impressive sight, and its location within the woods lends it a peaceful and spiritual atmosphere.

Grave of Mori lords

Tokoji stands about two kilometers southeast of Higashi-Hagi Station. By bicycle it can be reached in about 10-15 minutes slightly uphill, while on foot it takes about 30 minutes. Tokoji is also connected with Higashi-Hagi and Hagi Stations by the [Maru Bus](e6155.html) East Loop.

[How to get to and around Hagi](e6155.html)