---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6892.html
title: Asahiyama Zoo
description: Visitor guide for Asahiyama Zoo, the popular zoological garden in Asahikawa.
keywords: asahiyama, zoo, asahikawa, zoological, garden
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1778
char_count: 11931
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:12:01
---

Asahiyama Zoo and the plain of Asahikawa

Asahiyama Zoo (旭山動物園, Asahiyama Dōbutsuen) is a very popular zoological garden just outside of central [Asahikawa City](e6890.html) in the middle of [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html). Its popularity lies in the enclosures which allow visitors to observe the animals from various angles, many of which are unique to Asahiyama Zoo.

Highlights include a glass tunnel through the penguin pool that allows visitors to observe the birds' underwater flights, and small glass domes in the middle of the polar bear and wolf enclosures that can get visitors right among the animals. The zoo was also one of the first to organize penguin walks in winter. Work on new enclosures and improvements to existing ones is constantly ongoing.

Animals on display include native wildlife from [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html), including deer, eagles, cranes and (now extinct) wolves, as well as various animals from across the world, such as polar bears, apes, big cats and giraffes. If possible, try to visit the zoo outside of weekends and holidays to reduce the crowds.

Some unique enclosure at Asahiyama Zoo:

* 

  Penguins

  An underwater glass tunnel lets visitors observe the birds as they fly through the water.
* 

  Seals

  A glass pipe called "Marine Way" lets visitors inspect passing seals from all sides.
* 

  Polar Bears

  A glass dome called "Seals Eye" puts visitors into the position of the bears' favorite meal.
* 

  Wolves

  Another glass dome puts visitors at eye level with wolves.
* 

  Lesser Pandas

  A suspension bridge over a walking path connects the lesser pandas' enclosings.
* 

  Leopards

  This unique cage construction lets visitors observe the big cats from a rather unusual angle.

### From Asahikawa Station

Take [bus](e2015.html) number 41, 42 or 47 from Asahikawa Station to Asahiyama Zoo. The one way ride takes 40 minutes and costs 500 yen. There are about two buses per hour.

By [car](e2024.html), the zoo can be reached from central [Asahikawa](e6890.html) in about half an hour. The [taxi](e2021.html) fare is around 3000-4000 yen one way.

The closest train station to the zoo is Kitahinode Station, a 30-40 minute walk away.

### From Asahikawa Airport

There are very infrequent direct [buses](e2015.html) between the airport and the zoo (35 minutes, 650 yen one way). During the rest of the day, take a bus from the airport to Asahikawa Station (35 minutes, 750 yen, departures timed with flight arrivals) and then take another bus from there to the zoo (see details above). By [car](e2024.html), it takes about 25 minutes from the airport to the zoo. The [taxi](e2021.html) fare is around 3500-4500 yen one way.

### From Furano

Take the JR Furano Line from [Furano](e6825.html) to [Asahikawa](e6890.html) (70 minutes, 1380 yen, one train per hour) and then a [bus](e2015.html) from Asahikawa Station to the zoo (see details above). By [car](e2024.html), it takes about 70-90 minutes.

[How to get to and around Asahikawa](e6891.html)