---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6606.html
title: Ichijodani Asakura Clan Historic Ruins
description: Visitor guide to the Ichijodani Asakura Clan Historic Ruins, the ruins of a thriving Muromachi Period castle town.
keywords: ichijodani, asakura, family, clan, historic, ruins, fukui, travel, castle, town
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 758
char_count: 5184
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:30:20
---

The Ichijodani Asakura Clan Historic Ruins (一乗谷朝倉氏遺跡, Ichijōdani Asakurashi Iseki) are the partially reconstructed ruins of Ichijodani Castle Town in central [Fukui Prefecture](/list/e1223.html). At its peak during the [Muromachi Period](e2134.html), the castle town was the base of the powerful Asakura Clan and thrived as the region's cultural, military and commercial center of over 10,000 residents. [Oda Nobunaga](e2123.html) completely destroyed Ichijodani by burning it to the ground in 1573.

Excavation of the ruins began almost 400 years later in 1967. A small part of the town at the far southwestern end of the valley has since been reconstructed to its appearance during the [Muromachi Period](e2134.html). It includes the walled homes of [samurai](e2127.html), merchants, and craftsmen along a 200 meter long street. Several of the buildings are furnished and house mannequins to give visitors an idea of how they looked in the past. Entrance to the reconstructed town area is paid.

Restored town

The rest of the valley is free to explore, including the foundations of the Asakura Lords' residence. The only restored structure there is an ornate entrance gate at the center of the stone walls that encircle the former residence. Visitors can walk through the foundations and see several [gardens](e2099.html) that have been unearthed and restored. There are also several lookout points with views over the valley on the hills behind the former residence.

Many more foundations of residences, [temples](e2058.html) and [shrines](e2059.html) have been unearthed along the valley. In addition, visitors can view the ruins of the formidable gates that guarded the narrow ends of the valley; as well as hike up the 473 meter high mountain to the east which served as the site of Ichijodani Castle. However, not much of the former castle remains.

Ruins of the Asakura Lords' Residence

An outstanding museum about the ruins, the **Ichijodani Asakura Family Site Museum**, opened in 2022 just a few steps from Ichijodani Station and is a great place to learn about Ichijodani and the Asakura clan before going to explore the actual ruins further up the valley. Housed inside an attractive building, the museum exhibits items recovered from the ruins and a detailed diorama of the castle town at the height of its prosperity.

Visitors can also explore a large, partial reconstruction of the Asakura family residence inside the museum, including a recreation of the oldest flower bed ever discovered in Japan. Another highlight of the museum is the original excavation site of a long platform made from piled stones, believed to have been a boat dock along a river.

Ichijodani Asakura Family Site Museum

Take the JR Kuzuryu Line from Fukui to Ichijodani Station (20 minutes, 260 yen one way, every 2-3 hours) from where it is about a ten minute walk to the entrance of the former town. The restored village at the opposite end of former town is an additional 15 minute walk further into the valley. The museum is located just a few steps from Ichijodani Station.

Alternatively, take [bus](e2015.html) number 62 from Fukui Station to the Ichijodani Asakurashi Iseki Hakubutsukan-mae bus stop (一乗谷朝倉氏遺跡博物館前, 25 minutes, 640 yen one way, every 1-2 hours) in front of the new museum or the Fukugen Machinami bus stop (復原町並, 30 minutes, 680 yen one way) in front of the restored village.

By [rental car](e2024.html), Ichijodani can be reached in about 30 minutes from central [Fukui](e6600.html). Several free parking lots can be found along the valley and next to the museum.

[How to get to and around Fukui](e6603.html)