---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6927.html
title: Fuji Five Lakes Museum Guide
description: A list of museums found around Lake Kawaguchiko at the base of Mount Fuji.
keywords: mount, fuji, lake, kawaguchi, kawaguchiko, museum, guide
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2578
char_count: 17933
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:28:07
---

The touristy town around [Lake Kawaguchiko](e6906.html) offers an assortment of museums along the lake's southern and northern shores, varying in themes from conventional arts to herbs and music boxes. Below is a list of some of the museums found in the area:

### Art museums

* 

  [Kubota Itchiku Museum](e6912.html)

  Hours: 10:00 to 17:00 (until 16:30 from December to March)  
  Entry ends 30 minutes before closing.  
  Closed: irregular, check the [official website](http://www.itchiku-museum.com/)  
  Admission: 1500 yen

  The [Kubota Itchiku Museum](e6912.html) is a unique museum that displays kimono created by Kubota Itchiku, who spent his lifetime reviving the lost art of Tsujigahana silk dyeing. The kimono on display depict themes of nature and the cosmos and include his unfinished masterpiece "Symphony of Light", comprised of 80 kimono that together form a picture of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html).
* 

  Kawaguchiko Museum of Art

  Hours: 9:30 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Tuesdays, [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission: 800 yen

  The Kawaguchiko Museum of Art houses temporary exhibitions of Japanese and foreign modern artists as well as a small permanent collection of paintings and photographs featuring [Mount Fuji](e2172.html).
* 

  Fujiyama Museum

  Hours: 10:00 to 17:30 (entry until 17:00)  
  Closed: seasonal, check [official website](https://www.fujiyama-museum.com/en/)  
  Admission: 1000 yen

  The Fujiyama Museum is devoted to a wide variety of paintings and other illustrations of Mount Fuji. The museum is operated by and located just outside of the [Fuji Q Highland](e6918.html) amusement park behind the Fuji Resort Hotel and next to the [Fujiyama Onsen](e6902.html#fujiyama).

### Other museums

* 

  [Fujisan World Heritage Center](e6914.html)

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (seasonal variations; [see details](e6914.html#section_admission))  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free

  The [Fuji Visitor Center](e6914.html) at the entrance to the Subaru Line toll road to the [Fuji Subaru Line 5th Station](e6922.html) contains a small museum with exhibits and a movie about the formation and ecology of Mount Fuji as well as the cultural history of the mountain.
* 

  [Fujisan Museum](e6925.html)

  Hours: 9:30 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Tuesdays (except national holidays)  
  Admission: 400 yen (includes entry to the [Former Togawa Residence](e6924.html))

  The [Fujisan Museum](e6925.html) introduces the history and folk religion that surrounds [Mount Fuji](e2172.html). On display are exhibits explaining the religious significance of the mountain and the history of climbing it.
* 

  [Kawaguchiko Music Forest](e6913.html)

  Hours: 10:00 to 17:30 (entry until 17:00)  
  Closed: many Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays during winter  
  Admission: 1800-2100 yen

  More theme park than museum, the [Kawaguchiko Music Forest](e6913.html) is devoted to automatic musical instruments, such as music boxes and mechanical organs. The beautifully designed grounds with European styled gardens have nice views of Mount Fuji and are operated by the Ukai Group which also runs the [Glass Forest](e5215.html) in [Hakone](e5200.html).
* 

  Yamanashi Gem Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:30 (Mar to Oct), 9:30 to 17:00 (Nov to Feb)  
  Entry ends 30 minutes before closing.  
  Closed: Wed (except [national holidays](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission: 600 yen

  The Yamanashi Gem Museum displays gems, precious stones, and large quartz crystals collected from Japan and around the world. Half of the museum is a store where you can purchase jewelry and other trinkets made with the same types of gems and precious stones on display.
* 

  Herb Hall

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:45  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free

  The Herb Hall is basically a store with a herb garden and greenhouse where you can view and purchase herbs, tea and dried flowers. Behind the Herb Hall stands the Perfume Hall where you can buy perfumes, aroma oils and soaps.

### Kubota Itchiku Museum

Please see the [Kubota Itchiku Museum page](e6912.html) for details.

### Kawaguchiko Museum of Art

The [Omni Bus Red Line](e6905.html) (Kawaguchiko Line) connects Kawaguchiko Station with the Kawaguchiko Museum of Art (30 minutes). Get off at the Kawaguchiko Bijutsukan bus stop in front of the museum.

### Fujiyama Museum

Occasional buses along the [Omni Bus Red Line](e6905.html) (Kawaguchiko Line) connect Kawaguchiko Station to the Fujiyama Museum (10 minutes). Get off at the Fujiyama Onsen bus stop, from where it is a short walk to the museum.

### Fujisan World Heritage Center

Please see the [Fujisan World Heritage Center page](e6914.html) for details.

### Fujisan Museum

Please see the [Fujisan Museum page](e6925.html) for details.

### Kawaguchiko Music Forest

Please see the [Kawaguchiko Music Forest page](e6913.html) for details.

### Yamanashi Gem Museum and Herb Hall

The Yamanashi Gem Museum and Herb Hall are a few steps from the Kawaguchiko Herbkan bus stop along the red and green [Omni Bus](e6905.html) lines. The bus ride from Kawaguchiko Station takes about 10 minutes.

[How to get to and around the Fuji Five Lakes](e6905.html)

Bus Network Map: