---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6300.html
title: Shimoda Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Shimoda City in the south of the Izu Peninsula.
keywords: izu, peninsula, shimoda, guide, travel, tourism, sightseeing, tourist, information, visitor
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1872
char_count: 12202
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:17:08
---

Shimoda (下田) is a pleasant coastal city in the south of the [Izu Peninsula](e6310.html). It has historical importance as the landing place of several of [Commodore Perry](e6301.html)'s "black ships" in 1854, an event which led to the end of Japan's [era of isolation](e2128.html) and the start of diplomatic relations between the US and Japan. Shimoda is a popular spot for tourists who want to do marine sports, go to [beaches](e2461.html) and [hot springs](e2292.html).

* 

  [Perry's Black Ships](e6301.html)

  There are various sites and monuments in the town of Shimoda related to Commodore Perry. Visitors can see commemorative monuments in [Shimoda Park](e6302.html) and around the city, walk along the picturesque [Perry Street](e6301.html), and visit [Ryosenji Temple](e6301.html) where various Perry-related articles are exhibited. There is also a black ship sightseeing cruise that goes around Shimoda Port. The Kurofune Matsuri (Black Ship Festival) is held in the city in mid May every year.
* 

  [Shimoda Park](e6302.html)

  [Shimoda Park](e6302.html) covers a forested hill about a 20 minute walk from Izukyu-Shimoda Station. The park is known for its [hydrangeas](e2423_ajisai.html), which flower in June, and is also the site of a Monument to the Opening of US-Japan Diplomatic Relations which was built in the park in 1957.
* 

  [Shirahama Beach](e6304.html)

  One of the [Izu Peninsula](e6310.html)'s most famous and popular [sand beaches](e2461.html) for sunbathing and surfing. The official swimming season starts in mid July and lasts through August, but the swimming conditions tend to remain pleasant into September.

### How to get to Shimoda

Shimoda is directly connected to [Tokyo](e2164.html) by Odoriko [limited express](e2016.html) trains (around 2.5 hours, about 6000 yen one way, hourly departures). Alternatively, take the [Tokaido Shinkansen](e2018_tokaido.html) to [Atami](e6317.html) and transfer to the limited express Odoriko or a local train (requires a transfer at [Ito](e6307.html) to the Izukyu Railway) and get off at Izukyu-Shimoda Station, the terminal station of the Izukyu Railway. The trip takes about 2 hours and costs around 7000 yen one way if using the limited express, or about 2.5 hours, 6000 yen one way if using local trains.

The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) fully covers the [Tokaido Shinkansen](e2018_tokaido.html) and trains as far as Ito; however, those traveling beyond Ito will need to pay a [supplement fee](e2368.html). On the other hand, the [JR Tokyo Wide Pass](e2361_06.html), [JR East Nagano Niigata Area Pass](e2361_nagano_niigata.html), [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html) and [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html) fully cover the trains all the way to Izukyu Shimoda, but they do not cover the [Tokaido Shinkansen](e2018_tokaido.html).

### How to get around Shimoda

Most of the sites are within a 20-30 minute walk of Izukyu-Shimoda Station. Alternatively, [buses](e2015.html) connect most of the sites to the station. For those planning to travel around the southern [Izu Peninsula](e6310.html), Tokai Bus offers several [discount passes](e6305.html#section_orientation) that can make visiting multiple sites in the region more convenient and economical.

[How to get to and around the Izu Peninsula](e6305.html)