---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6005.html
title: Togakushi Shrine
description: Visitor guide for Togakushi Shrine, a shinto shrine in Nagano City
keywords: togakushi, shrine, shrines, jinja, shinto, nagano
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2135
char_count: 14170
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:23:17
---

Middle shrine

Togakushi Shrine (戸隠神社, Togakushi Jinja) consists of a lower, middle and upper [shrine](e2059.html) in the forested mountains northwest of central [Nagano](e6000.html). The shrines are related to an important story in Japanese mythology in which the Sun Goddess hid herself in a cave in present day [Takachiho](e8054.html) on [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html) after her brother had misbehaved, thereby bringing darkness to the world.

In order to get the sunlight back, the other deities tried to lure the Sun Goddess out of the cave by performing spectacular dance performances in front of it. As the Sun Goddess took a peek out, one of the deities grabbed the cave's stone door and threw it away to prevent her from hiding again. The stone door flew all the way to Togakushi in [Nagano Prefecture](/list/e1216.html), which is also how the area got its name: Togakushi literally means "hiding door".

Path to upper shrine lined by cryptomeria trees

Today, the upper shrine worships the deity who grabbed and threw away the stone door, while the middle shrine enshrines the deity who organized the dance performances.

The [shrines](e2059.html) of Togakushi are connected by roads and hiking trails up the mountain's forested slopes. Visitors first arrive at the torii gate of the **lower shrine**, where a long flight of stairs leads to the praying hall. A two kilometer ascent from there takes you to the **middle shrine**, which stands at the top of a small town of shops and restaurants. The shrine features a praying hall with nice architecture, a small waterfall, and sacred trees which are over 800 years old.

Zuishinmon Gate

The entrance to the **upper shrine** is a further two kilometers uphill from the middle shrine. From the parking lot and bus stop starts the two kilometer long approach to the shrine, which is lined by over 300 tall cryptomeria trees, passes the thatched-roof Zuishinmon Gate along the way, and ends with a series of stone steps. The shrine's main hall spectacularly stands in the steep mountainside of Mount Togakushi with the mountain peaks towering above.

An alternative trail to the upper shrine leads via Kagamiike ("Mirror Pond"), a serene pond which reflects the surrounding mountain landscape nicely. Note also that the [Togakure Ninpo Museum](e6006.html) is situated just next to the entrance to the upper shrine, while the [Kids Ninja Village](e6007.html) is close in proximity to the middle shrine, making interesting additions to the shrine visits.

Kagamiike

Express [buses](e2015.html) for tourists run every hour between Nagano Station and the three Togakushi shrines. The one way trip takes just under an hour and costs 2000 yen. Seat reservations should be made in advance [online](https://www.highwaybus.com/gp/inbound/inbPlanList?lineId=256) or at the Alpico Bus ticket office at Nagano Station, although it is possible to board the bus without reservation if there are vacant seats.

A separate bus operates hourly between the three shrines for 400 yen per ride.

[How to get to and around Nagano](e6003.html)