---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6918.html
title: Fuji-Q Highland
description: Visitor guide for the Fuji-Q Highland amusement park at the base of Mount Fuji.
keywords: fujigoko, fujiq, fujikyu, highland, q, fujiyama, roller, coaster, mt, mount, fuji
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2427
char_count: 16561
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:05:28
---

Fuji-Q Highland (富士急ハイランド) is one of Japan's most popular [amusement parks](e2067.html), located in the [Fuji Five Lake](e6900.html) region at the foot of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html). It is best known for its thrilling, record-breaking roller coasters and elaborate, anime- themed rides and attractions. The park strives to be at the forefront of theme park entertainment, and has been constantly opening new rides and attractions, including Guinness World Record breaking roller coasters.

Currently, the park has five major **roller coasters**. Fujiyama was the world's tallest and fastest roller coaster when it opened in 1996, and it continues to rank among the best coasters in the world. Eejanaika (2006), a "4th dimension" roller coaster with seats rotating within the car, has the most inversions of any roller coaster. Takabisha, built in 2011, is the steepest roller coaster in the world, dropping at an angle of 121 degrees. And Zokkon (2023) is a motorcycle-like coaster with sudden acceleration, sharp turns and backing.

The park also has several large-scale **entertainment attractions**, many of which are based on popular [anime](e2070.html) series, including multiple mazes and haunted attractions. In addition, there are a range of traditional rides such as tea cup, pirate ship and drop tower type rides, a Ferris wheel, carousel and sky swings. Restaurants, rest areas, souvenir shops and carnival games are spread out around the park.

There are also a number of **kids attractions** some of which are based on popular anime series. Furthermore, one area of the park is home to **Thomas Land**, a train themed zone which is based on the British Thomas the Tank Engine books and television series.

Thomas Land

Just outside the park a few steps from its main entrance stands the **Highland Resort Hotel and Spa**, an affiliated hotel that offers nice views of Mount Fuji and easy access to Fuji-Q Highland and its surrounding attractions. Hotel guests enjoy perks such as early entrance to the theme park and free entry to the Fujiyama Onsen.

The **Fujiyama Museum** is an art museum displaying a wide variety of paintings and other illustrations of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html). The museum is located on the Fuji-Q Highland park grounds.

Also nearby just outside the park is the **Fujiyama Onsen**, a modern [hot spring](e2292.html) facility next to the Fuji-Q Highland Resort. The bath house features nice, traditionally styled wooden baths and offers both indoor and outdoor baths segregated by gender. Unfortunately, Fujiyama Onsen does not have views of Mount Fuji from its baths, but the mountain can be seen from the facility's restaurant.

Fujiyama Onsen

Fuji-Q Highland lies next to Fujikyu Highland Station on the Fujikyu Railway Line between Otsuki and Kawaguchiko stations. The one way trip from Kawaguchiko Station takes two minutes and costs 180 yen. There are 2-3 departures per hour. The Fujikyu Railway Line is not covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), but it is covered by the [JR Tokyo Wide Pass](e2361_06.html).

Virtually every [highway bus](e2366.html) to the [Fuji Five Lakes](e6900.html) area stops at Fuji-Q Highland along the way. These include direct buses to [Shinjuku](e3011.html), [Tokyo Station](e3037.html) and [Yokohama](e2156.html) Station. Various combination tickets are available that include transportation and admission to the park.

Additionally, many local buses and occasional [Omni Buses](e6905.html) on the Kawaguchiko Line stop at Fuji-Q Highland and Fujiyama Onsen.

[How to get to and around the Fuji Five Lakes](e6905.html)