---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6242.html
title: Ushiku Daibutsu Travel Guide (Ushiku Great Buddha)
description: Travel guide for the Ushiku Daibutsu, the tallest Buddha statue in Japan.
keywords: ibaraki, ushiku, daibutsu, great, buddha, big, tallest, bronze, statue, travel, guide, sightseeing, trip, tourism, tourist, information, visitor
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 563
char_count: 3606
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:47:53
---

Towering at a massive 120 meters, the Ushiku Daibutsu (牛久大仏, "Great Buddha of Ushiku") in Ushiku City, [Ibaraki Prefecture](/list/e1211.html), is one of the world's tallest Buddha statues. For comparison, [Nara](e2165.html)'s Daibutsu in [Todaiji Temple](e4100.html) is only 15 meters high and can fit in the palm of the Ushiku Daibutsu. The bronze statue's height is symbolic of the twelve kinds of light that radiate from the Buddha and reach all in the world who recite his name as espoused by the True Pure Land sect of [Japanese Buddhism](e2055.html).

The Ushiku Daibutsu is surrounded by a spacious park where over 100 [cherry trees](e2011.html) bloom typically from early to mid April. Other [flowers](e2423.html) in the park include pink moss (April), poppies (May) and cosmos (September and October). Along the approach to the Ushiku Daibutsu, visitors come across the two-story Hakkenmon Gate, which houses three images of the Buddha on the second floor, a pond representing the source of life, Japan's largest bronze incense burner, and a small [Pure Land garden](e2099_types.html) depicting Buddhist paradise.

Visitors walking past the 1:1000 scale model of the Buddha's head

In addition to admiring the Ushiku Daibutsu from the outside, the statue can also be entered. There are five floors inside, and an elevator connects the three lower with the two upper floors. The visiting route starts on the first floor, where a conceptual light show of the light that emanates from Buddha can be experienced. Visitors then take the elevator from the second floor to the fifth floor at an elevation of 85 meters. This is where some of the Buddha's remains are enshrined and slim glass windows provide views out the four cardinal points.

A short flight of stairs leads to the fourth floor, where there is a small souvenir shop, and from where visitors take the elevator about 70 meters down to the third floor. An impressive golden sanctuary containing about 3400 statues of Buddha is located on the third floor, while the second floor offers a space for those who wish to copy sutra (extra fee charged).

Golden sanctuary on the third floor

The nearest train station to Ushiku Daibutsu is Ushiku Station, which can be reached from [Tokyo](e2164.html) (Ueno, Tokyo or Shinagawa stations) in about one hour by [trains](e2016.html) along the JR Joban Line. The one way journey costs 990 yen and is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), [Tokyo Wide Pass](e2361_06.html) and other [regional JR passes](e2357.html).

From Ushiku Station's east exit, take a [bus](e2015.html) bound for Ushiku Daibutsu or Ami Premium Outlet and get off at Ushiku Daibutsu. On weekends buses operate every hour and cost 560 yen one way, while on weekdays and [public holidays](e2062.html) they operate only every two hours and cost 730 yen one way. The bus ride takes around 20-25 minutes. Alternatively, the Daibutsu is a 20 minute [taxi](e2021.html) ride from Ushiku Station (around 3500-4000 yen one way).