---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6353.html
title: Kunozan Toshogu Shrine
description: Visitor guide for Kunozan Toshogu, an ornate shrine dedicated to Tokugawa Ieyasu.
keywords: kunozan, toshogu, shrine, tokugawa, ieyasu, shizuoka, nihondaira
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1822
char_count: 12150
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:27:12
---

Kunozan Toshogu (久能山東照宮, Kunōzan Tōshōgū) is a [shrine](e2059.html) dedicated to the famous leader [Tokugawa Ieyasu](e2128.html) (1543-1616) who brought a long period of [civil wars](e2134.html) to an end and united all of Japan. Having spent the last decade of his life at the nearby [Sumpu Castle](e6352.html), Ieyasu expressed his wish for a mausoleum on Mount Kunozan. Of the many Toshogu shrines dedicated to Ieyasu throughout Japan, [Shizuoka](e6350.html)'s is second in importance only to [Nikko](e3800.html)'s [Toshogu](e3801.html).

The main approach to Kunozan Toshogu is from the south and involves a considerable climb up the mountain. Over a thousand stone steps zig zag up the mountainside, allowing for impressive views of Suruga Bay and the oceanside along the way. Travelers who would rather not subject themselves to the climb can access the shrine by ropeway from the north from the Nihondaira plateau instead.

The elaborate roofs of the Haiden and Honden

The shrine complex itself is extensive and consists of a large number of bright red buildings decorated with gold accents and colorful carvings and paintings. The **Romon Gate** is located right after the ticket booth, behind which the route leads past a stable, a drum tower and a copper lantern to the main buildings, the **Haiden** and **Honden** halls. Even deeper in the woods, sits the tomb of Ieyasu.

Outside the shrine stands the **Museum of Kunozan Toshogu** which exhibits some of Ieyasu's personal belongings and shrine treasures, such as swords, armors and hanging scrolls.

Further up the mountain - above the shrine - is the **Nihondaira** plateau (日本平), which can be reached by the Nihondaira Ropeway. The plateau is well known for its views over Suruga Bay, [Shimizu Port](e6354.html), tea fields and - most famously - [Mount Fuji](e2172.html).

View over Shimizu Port from the summit of Nihondaira

Kunozan Shrine can either be accessed from the south by climbing approximately 1000 stone steps or by ropeway from the north from the Nihondaira plateau.

### By foot from the south

It is about a 30 minute bus ride from either Shizuoka Station (most connection require a transfer at Otani 大谷) or Shimizu Station to Kunozan-shita bus stop (久能山下), from where the climb to the shrine takes about 20 minutes.

Hundreds of stone steps along the approach to the shrine

### By ropeway from Nihondaira

There are hourly buses from Shizuoka Station to Nihondaira Ropeway (日本平ロープウェイ, 45 minutes, 710 yen one way) from where the ropeway can be taken to the shrine (5 minutes, every 10-15 minutes). The ropeway costs 700 yen one way, 1250 yen round trip or 1950 yen for a round trip and admission to the shrine and museum.

[How to get to and around Shizuoka](e6351.html)