---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6406.html
title: Sawara Town
description: Visitor guide for Sawara, a small canal town in Narita.
keywords: sawara, canal, canals, town, narita
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1849
char_count: 12308
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:17:47
---

Sawara (佐原) is a small town northeast of [Narita City](e6400.html) that prospered during the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868) as a transport hub for rice shipments into [Edo](e2164.html). Sawara's historic center lies along a canal, and is known as "Little Edo" for its small district of preserved and restored traditional residences, merchant shops and warehouses from the Edo Period.

The canal is crossed by a number of bridges, the most interesting of which is the Ja Ja Bridge that spouts a twice hourly waterfall from its span into the canal below. Flat-bottomed boat tours of the canal depart from here.

Also found near the Ja Ja Bridge are the **Ino Tadataka Museum** and his former residence. Born in Sawara, Ino Tadataka was an Edo Period surveyor who made highly accurate maps of the entire Japanese archipelago for the [Tokugawa Shogunate](e2128.html). The museum is dedicated to displaying his work and his techniques with excellent displays and description in English.

The town is also known for its [festival](e2063.html), the Sawara Matsuri, where floats topped by giant dolls, representing mythological Japanese warriors and heroes, are wheeled through the streets. The festival is held twice yearly in July and October. A few of the floats and other festival items can be seen year round at the **Dashi Kaikan** museum a short walk from the canal.

Dashi Kaikan Museum

Sawara is located about 20 kilometers northeast of [Narita Airport](e2027.html). It can be reached from Narita Station by train along the JR Narita Line (30 minutes, 510 yen, 1-2 trains per hour). The historic town center is about a 10-15 minute walk from the station.

Alternatively, Sawara can be accessed by [car](e2024.html) in about 30 minutes from [Narita Airport](e2027.html) if using the [expressway](e2354.html) (860 yen expressway tolls one way, get off at Sawara-Katori IC) or about 45 minutes by toll-free roads.

[How to get to and around Narita](e6402.html)