---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6903.html
title: Fujiyoshida Sengen Shrine
description: Visitor guide for Fujiyoshida Sengen Shrine, the main shrine at the northern foot of Mount Fuji.
keywords: fujiyoshida, yoshida, sengen, shrine, sengenjinja, climb, trail, mount, fuji
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2205
char_count: 15019
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:27:40
---

Shrine Approach

There are more than a thousand Fuji Sengen shrines across Japan, dedicated to Princess Konohanasakuya, the [Shinto](e2056.html) deity associated with [Mount Fuji](e2172.html). Fujiyoshida Sengen Shrine, formally known as Kitaguchi Hongū Fuji Sengen Jinja (北口本宮冨士浅間神社, "North Entrance Fuji Sengen Shrine"), is the main shrine on the north side of the mountain. The head shrine of them all is the [Fujisan Hongu Sengen Taisha](e6367.html) on the opposite side of the mountain in [Fujinomiya](e6365.html).

Fujiyoshida Sengen Shrine stands in a dense forest and is set off from the road by a long approach lined by stone lanterns and shaded by tall cedar trees. The shrine's red painted buildings include a main hall dating from 1615, a dancing stage and a few auxiliary buildings.

Main Hall

In the past, Fujiyoshida's Sengen Shrine used to be the common starting point for [climbing Mount Fuji](e6901.html) from the north. The trailhead is still located directly behind the right side of the shrine's main hall, and some traditionalist hikers still begin their ascent with a prayer at the shrine before passing through the wooden torii gate in the back of the shrine grounds.

These days, however, most [climbers](e6901.html) forego the shrine and start their ascent from [Fuji Subaru Line 5th Station](e6922.html) halfway up the mountain. This effectively halves the distance to the summit and shortens the climb by more than five hours.

Yoshida Trailhead

There are 1-2 [buses](e2015.html) per hour from Kawaguchiko Station and Fujisan Station in direction of [Lake Yamanakako](e6908.html) and Gotemba that stop at the Sengen Shrine along the way. Get off at the Kitaguchi Hongu Fujisengen Jinja-mae bus stop in front of the wooded approach to the shrine. The bus ride takes about 15 minutes from Kawaguchiko Station or about 5 minutes from Fujiyoshida Station. Alternatively, the shrine is a 30 minute walk from Fujiyoshida Station.

[How to get to and around the Fuji Five Lakes](e6905.html)