---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6041.html
title: Mount Norikuradake
description: Visitor guide for Mount Norikuradake in the Northern Japan Alps.
keywords: norikura, mount, mt, norikuradake, mountain, japan
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 625
char_count: 4279
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:26:09
---

Kengamine Peak, the highest point of Mount Norikuradake

Mount Norikuradake (乗鞍岳, Norikuradake) is a 3026 meter high, [volcanic](e2327.html) mountain along the border between [Nagano](/list/e1216.html) and [Gifu](/list/e1220.html) prefectures. One of Japan's 100 famous mountains, it is the southernmost and third tallest major peak of the [Northern Japan Alps](e6043.html). It is a well known hiking destination, and an easy mountain to climb thanks to [buses](e2015.html) running almost to the summit.

One of Japan's highest roads leads to the Norikura Bus Terminal at 2700 meters above sea level, not too far from the peak. The road is closed to private cars, but [buses](e2015.html) and [taxis](e2021.html) carry hikers up from parking lots on both the [Nagano](/list/e1216.html) and [Gifu](/list/e1220.html) sides of the mountain. From there it is a 30 minute walk along a gravel service road to a mountain hut; and then a further 60 minutes along a hiking trail to Kengamine Peak, the highest point of Mount Norikuradake.

Mount Norikuradake is a popular [autumn color](e2014.html) spot and one of the first places in the country to see the changing colors. The alpine plants around the higher elevations usually change in mid September and peak later in the month, but the season lasts into October as the colors slowly make their way down to [Norikura Kogen](e6044.html) below. The high elevation also allows snow fields to remain on the slopes late into the summer attracting adventurous summer [skiers](e2262.html) who hike up and then ski down.

Norikura Bus Terminal at 2700 meters above sea level

The road up Mount Norikuradake is closed during the winter from November to mid May on the [Gifu](/list/e1220.html) side and from November through June on the [Nagano](/list/e1216.html) side.

#### By bus from Norikura Kogen (Nagano side)   *([how to get to Norikura Kogen](e6046.html))*

From July to October, buses depart every 1-2 hours from the Norikura Kogen Tourist Information Center for the Norikura Bus Terminal near the summit (50 minutes, 2350 yen one way, 4600 yen round trip). Seat reservations for these buses are mandatory and can be made through Japan Bus Online ([reserve uphill bus](https://japanbusonline.com/en/Detail/11600380001/0/4202029/4202029/?afcd=MDI=), [reserve downhill bus](https://japanbusonline.com/en/Detail/11600380001/1/4202029/4202029/?afcd=MDI=)) or at the ticket office at Norikura Kogen Tourist Information Center. Alternatively, you can hire a [taxi](e2021.html) up the mountain (45 minutes, around 10,000 yen one way).

#### By bus from Takayama (Gifu side)   *([how to get to Takayama](e5908.html))*

From mid May through October, [buses](e2015.html) depart hourly (less frequently on rainy days) from Hirayu Onsen via the Honokidaira parking lot for the Norikura Bus Terminal near the summit (70 minutes, 1800 yen one way, 3400 yen round trip). Seat reservations are not possible. Alternatively, you can hire a taxi up the mountain (1 hour, about 10,000 yen one way). [Hirayu Onsen](e5940.html) can be reached in one hour and for 1600 yen from [Takayama](e5900.html) by Nohi Bus.

#### By car

[Private cars](e2022.html) are not permitted to drive up Mount Norikuradake. Instead, travelers have to transfer to a bus at the base of the mountain (see bus details above). On the [Nagano](/list/e1216.html) side, cars are allowed as far as Sanbondaki in [Norikura Kogen](e6044.html). There are multiple free parking lots in the area, including a large one at the Norikura Kogen Tourist Information Center. On the [Gifu](/list/e1220.html) side, drivers can park their car in [Hirayu Onsen](e5940.html) or at the Honokidaira parking lot outside of the town.