---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6956.html
title: Daizenji Temple (Grape Temple)
description: Visitor guide for Daizenji Temple in Kofu.
keywords: daizenji, temple, temples, kofu, yamanashi, buddhist, busshism, grape, grapes, wine
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 483
char_count: 3407
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:14:40
---

The main hall (right)

Daizenji (大善寺) is a [temple](e2058.html) in Katsunuma near [Kofu](e6950.html). It is known colloquially as the "grape temple" because [grape](e2347.html) cultivation purportedly started here in the [8th century](e2132.html) around the time when the temple was established. Within the grounds are a multitude of impressive artifacts including its beautiful main hall. The complex is nestled on a vineyard-covered hillside overlooking the Kofu Plain.

The main hall dates back to the [Kamakura Period](e2133.html) (1192-1333) and is a designated national treasure. It stands at the top of a long flight of stairs. The Buddhist monk Gyoki is said to have established the temple after being met by the Yakushi [Buddha](e2055.html) holding a cluster of grapes. Inside the main hall stands a statue of the grape-bearing Buddha, although this is a copy of the original which is kept out of public view.

The temple's traditional Japanese garden

The Buddha is enshrined in an altar that was presented to the [temple](e2058.html) centuries ago as a gift from the powerful Takeda clan that ruled this area for generations. Flanking the altar are twelve heavenly general statues guarding the Buddha that also date back to the Kamakura Period.

At the bottom of the long flight of stairs in the temple's lower grounds, visitors can enter one of the precinct buildings to view a nice [Japanese garden](e2099.html) behind the building. In the lower grounds also stand the temple's large Sanmon Gate which dates back to the 18th century and a garden in which grapes are grown.

The Sanmon Gate

There is a [bus](e2015.html) from Enzan Station to the temple (35 minutes, 300 yen one way), but it operates only every 2-5 hours. Enzan Station can be reached from Kofu Station in 20 minutes and for 330 yen along the JR Chuo Line. The infrequent loop buses that serve the [winery area](e6954.html) also stop at the temple. Alternatively, Daizenji can be reached from Katsunumabudokyo Station by [taxi](e2021.html) in about ten minutes (around 1000-1500 yen one way) or on foot in about 45 minutes.

[How to get to and around Kofu](e6953.html)