---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6925.html
title: Fujisan Museum
description: Visitor guide for the Fujisan Museum about Mount. Fuji and the culture and tradition that developed around it.
keywords: fujisan, museum, mount, fuji, culture, tradition
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2144
char_count: 14648
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:28:22
---

The Fujisan Museum (ふじさんミュージアム) is a [museum](e2428.html) dedicated to the history and folk religion that surrounds [Mount Fuji](e2172.html), the tallest mountain in Japan. The museum is divided into sections about the history of [climbing Mount Fuji](e6901.html), the mountain's religious significance and the town of Fujiyoshida, where the museum is located, and its relation to the prominent [volcano](e2327.html).

An emphasis is placed on information about the worship of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html), the pilgrims who scaled the mountain over the centuries, and the inns where the pilgrims stayed on their journey to Mount Fuji. The museum is generally well done with interactive screens, videos and projection mapping technology, although English information is limited.

Outside of the museum building stand some former residences with thatched roofs that used to serve as pilgrim inns and were relocated here. Furthermore, the [Former Togawa Residence](e6924.html), another former pilgrim inn, which remains standing in its original location, 2.5 kilometer north of the museum along the approach to [Fujiyoshida Sengen Shrine](e6903.html), is considered a museum annex and included in the admission.

Projection mapping on a scale model of Mount Fuji

The Fujisan Museum is a ten minute [bus](e2015.html) ride from Fujisan Station. Take a bus in the direction of [Yamanakako](e6908.html) and get off at Sun Park Fuji-mae (サンパークふじ前, 2-3 departures/hour, 300 yen one way). Alternatively, take the [Fujikko tourist bus](e6905.html) to Fujisan Museum Park-mae (300 yen from Fujisan Station). The museum is a short walk from the two bus stops.

[How to get to and around the Fuji Five Lakes](e6905.html)