---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6366.html
title: Fuji Five Lakes to Fujinomiya\: How to get to and around Fujinomiya
description: How to get to and around Fujinomiya.
keywords: fujinomiya, access, orientation, directions, transport, transportation, get there, around, train, bus
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 477
char_count: 3446
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:28:51
---

From/To:

Fuji Five LakesTokyoOsakaKyoto

Fujikyu Bus operates 3-4 [buses](e2015.html) per day between the [Fuji Five Lakes](e6900.html) and Shin-Fuji Station, which stop at the [Shiraito Falls](e6368.html) and [Fujinomiya](e6365.html) Station along the way. The one way ride between Kawaguchiko Station and Fujinomiya Station takes about 90 minutes and costs 2420 yen. In the Fuji Five Lake area, the buses also stop at [Fuji Q Highland](e6918.html) and some at Fujisan Station.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

The transportation hub of Fujinomiya City is **Fujinomiya Station** at the center of town. From there it is an easy walk to [Fujisan Sengen Shrine](e6367.html), while buses run to the [Shiraito Falls](e6368.html), the [Fuji Five Lakes](e6900.html) and during the hiking season to the [Fujinomiya 5th Station](e6930.html).

Another transportation hub is **Shin-Fuji Station** along the [Tokaido Shinkansen](e2018_tokaido.html), which is served only by Kodama trains. From Shin-Fuji Station, there are infrequent buses to Fujinomiya Station, Shiraito Falls and the Fuji Five Lakes. Note that local trains stop at **Fuji Station**, which is 1.5 kilometers away and not served by many of the buses in direction of the Fuji Five Lakes.

The **Mount Fuji West Side Story Passport** provides two days of unlimited use of buses on the west and north side of Mount Fuji for 3500 yen, including the bus between Shin-Fuji Station and Kawaguchiko Station and the tourist buses around [Lake Kawaguchiko](e6906.html) and [Lake Saiko](e6907.html). In addition it provides discounts at selected tourist attractions, shops and restaurants. The pass can be purchased at Shin-Fuji, Fujinomiya, Kawaguchiko and Fujisan stations.

Despite all the buses that run though the area, the connections around Fujinomiya may not be very convenient for those wishing to visit multiple sites in a day. Those visitors may be better off exploring the area by [rental car](e2024.html). Rental car outlets can be found around Shin-Fuji and Kawaguchiko Stations.