---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6355.html
title: Miho Beach
description: Visitor guide for Miho Beach, a beach along the Miho Peninsula in Shizuoka City that is famous for its pine trees and views of Mount Fuji.
keywords: miho, beach, mount, fuji, pine, trees, shizuoka
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1683
char_count: 11150
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:27:10
---

Miho Beach and Mount Fuji

The Miho Peninsula extends from [Shizuoka City](e6350.html) into Suruga Bay, and is known for its views of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html) in conjunction with the pine tree lined Miho Beach. The [beach](e2461.html) extends for about three kilometers along the peninsula's eastern coast, and is made of small stones rather than sand. An attractive walking and cycling trail follows the tree lined beach. Areas for swimming can be found on the peninsula's northern side.

Among the many pine trees lining the beach is the **Hagoromo-no-Matsu**. A legend is associated with the tree about a fisherman who once found a robe belonging to a heavenly maiden hanging on the tree's branches. The second generation Hagoromo-no-Matsu lived for over 600 years before withering. It was replaced by the third generation tree, another majestic pine tree nearby in 2010, and felled except for the base of its trunk which was left standing.

The second generation Hagoromo-no-Matsu pine tree before it was felled

Shizutetsu buses run from JR Shimizu Station to the end of the Miho Peninsula. The closest bus stop is Miho no Matsubara Iriguchi bus stop (25 minutes, 440 yen one way from Shimizu Station, every 20-30 minutes), a 15 minute walk from the beach. On weekends and [national holidays](e2062.html), hourly buses go all the way to the Sekaiissan Miho-no-Matsubara bus stop, a short walk from the beach (30 minutes, 470 yen one way from Shimizu Station).

Alternatively, water buses travel hourly from the Ejiri Pier at the [Kashi-no-Ichi Market](e6354.html) to the Hinode Pier beside the [S-Pulse Dream Plaza](e6354.html) and the Miho Pier before returning to Ejiri Pier. The fare is 800 yen per ride, and it takes about 20 minutes to walk from the pier to the beach.

[How to get to and around Shizuoka](e6351.html)