---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6034.html
title: Shiraito Waterfall
description: Visitor guide for the Shiraito Waterfall, a popular tourist destination outside of downtown Karuizawa
keywords: karuizawa, shiraito, falls, waterfall, no, taki
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1946
char_count: 12783
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:18:39
---

Shiraito Waterfall (白糸の滝, Shiraito no Taki) is located in the forests north of central [Karuizawa](e6030.html). It is only three meters high, but 70 meters wide. The mountain slopes above the waterfall contain a volcanic stratum on which groundwater flows before surfacing here. This explains why no river flows into the Shiraito Waterfall. Also, as only a small portion of the water flowing is rain water, the strength of the flow is not much impacted by the [weather](e2273.html).

Shiraito no Taki literally means "the waterfall of white threads", which aptly describes its appearance, as multiple streaks of water drape over the surface forming what seems like a white curtain. The site is most beautiful in summer when the vegetation is lush; it is a somewhat popular destination for [autumn colors](e2014.html) around late October each year.

Trail leading to the waterfall

Kusakaru Kotsu operates [buses](e2015.html) between Karuizawa Station and the Shiraito Waterfall (25 minutes, 720 yen one way, 1-2 buses/hour, less in winter). Get off at "Shiraito no Taki" bus stop (白糸の滝) from where the waterfall is a five minute walk.

The waterfall is located along the Shiraito Highlandway toll road (500 yen for [cars](e2024.html)), which starts just north of the [Former Mikasa Hotel](e6032.html#mikasa) and ends at the Mine no Chaya intersection.

[How to get to and around Karuizawa](e6031.html)