---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6150.html
title: Hagi Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Hagi, a city in Yamaguchi Prefecture, Japan.
keywords: hagi, guide, travel, tourism, sightseeing, tourist, visitor, visit, information
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 326
char_count: 2681
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 11:40:15
---

Hagi (萩) is a former [castle town](e2422.html) off the major transport ways along the tranquil Sea of Japan coast in [Yamaguchi Prefecture](/list/e1239.html). It used to be the capital of the Mori Clan, one of the most powerful clans during the [feudal age](e2128.html). Mori lords governed present Yamaguchi (then known as Choshu) for more than 250 years and played a central role in bringing about the [Meiji Restoration](e2130.html) in the second half of the 19th century.

Hagi is best known for its nicely preserved [former castle town](e6151.html) and its local [Hagiyaki Pottery](e6157.html) which ranks among Japan's finest. The town has been fortunate to have avoided major disasters since the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868), thereby maintaining an appearance generally in accordance to town plans from centuries ago. Several beautiful old [samurai](e2127.html) and merchant residences survive and are open to public.

* [](/e/e6153.html)

  1

  Temple

  [Tokoji Temple•](/e/e6153.html)

  Half of the Mori lords are buried here.

  3.9

  

  91
* [](/e/e6151.html)

  2

  Historic Site

  [Former Castle Town•](/e/e6151.html)

  Nicely preserved former samurai district.

  3.8

  

  173
* [](/e/e6159.html)

  3

  Historic Site

  [Aiba Waterway](/e/e6159.html)

  Nice district with canal and historic residences.

  4.0

  

  27
* [](/e/e6154.html)

  4

  Temple

  [Daishoin Temple](/e/e6154.html)

  Half of the Mori lords are buried here.

  3.8

  

  80
* [](/e/e6157.html)

  5

  Pottery

  [Hagiyaki Pottery](/e/e6157.html)

  One of Japan's most celebrated pottery types.

  3.8

  

  45
* [](/e/e6156.html)

  6

  Shrine

  [Shoin Shrine](/e/e6156.html)

  Dedicated to the local hero Yoshida Shoin.

  3.7

  

  44
* [](/e/e6158.html)

  7

  Nature

  [Mount Kasayama](/e/e6158.html)

  Small volcano with a nice pond at its base.

  3.6

  

  23
* [](/e/e6152.html)

  8

  Castle

  [Hagi Castle](/e/e6152.html)

  Ruins of the former Hagi Castle.

  3.0

  

  175
* [](/e/e6160.html)

  9

  Museum

  [Meirinkan](/e/e6160.html)

  Former school turned into an interesting history museum.

  10

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Hagi](/e/e6150.html)

[Getting to and around Hagi](/e/e6155.html)
[See access info](/e/e6155.html)