---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6341.html
title: How to get to and around Kakegawa\: Access, Orientation and Transportation
description: Access, Orientation and transportation in Kakegawa\: how to get to and around Kakegawa.
keywords: kakegawa, orientation, transportation, access, how, to, get, to, train, bus, shinkansen
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 410
char_count: 2961
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:27:23
---

### How to get to Kakegawa

#### From Tokyo

[Tokyo](e2164.html) and [Kakegawa](e6340.html) are connected by twice-hourly [Kodama](e2018_tokaido.html) trains along the [Tokaido Shinkansen](e2018_tokaido.html) (100 minutes, around 7500 yen one way, covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html)).

Alternatively, the two cities are connected by roughly hourly [highway buses](e2366.html) along the Tomei Expressway. The one way journey takes around 3.5 hours and costs 3900 yen. Note that the bus stop in Kakegawa is located at the Kakegawa expressway exit, one kilometer south of Kakegawa Station.

#### From Shizuoka

[Shizuoka](e6350.html) and [Kakegawa](e6340.html) are connected by twice-hourly [Kodama](e2018_tokaido.html) trains along the [Tokaido Shinkansen](e2018_tokaido.html) (15 minutes, 1730 yen one way for an unreserved seat). Alternatively the journey takes about 45 minutes and costs 860 yen one way by local trains along the JR Tokaido Main Line which depart every 20 minutes. Both trains are covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html).

#### From Nagoya

[Nagoya](e2155.html) and [Kakegawa](e6340.html) are connected by twice-hourly [Kodama](e2018_tokaido.html) trains along the [Tokaido Shinkansen](e2018_tokaido.html) (60 minutes, around 5000 yen one way, covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html)).

Alternatively, the two cities are connected by roughly hourly [highway buses](e2366.html) along the Tomei Expressway. The one way journey takes around 2.5 hours and costs 2400 yen. Note that the bus stop in Kakegawa is located at the Kakegawa expressway exit, one kilometer south of Kakegawa Station.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](/e/e2196.html).

[Kakegawa](e6340.html)'s city center is relatively compact and centered around **Kakegawa Station**, which serves both [local trains](e2016.html) and the [shinkansen](e2018.html).

Several of the city's attractions can be accessed on foot from Kakegawa Station, including the [castle](e6342.html), a ten minute walk north of the station, and the [bird park](e6344.html), a 15 minute walk south of the station. The [tea fields](e6343.html), however, are located outside the city center and not well served by public transportation. They are best visited with a [rental car](e2024.html). Multiple car rental outlets are found around Kakegawa Station.

Kakegawa is served by a [bus](e2015.html) network centered at Kakegawa Station; however, it is rather useless to the average tourist.