---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6921.html
title: Maglev Exhibition Center
description: Visitor guide for the Yamanashi Prefectural Maglev Exhibition Center, which exhibits the technology of the upcoming Chuo Shinkansen.
keywords: maglev, linear, chuo, shinkansen, motor, bullet, train, exhibition, center
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2284
char_count: 15546
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:27:54
---

World record setting maglev train greets visitors to the Maglev Exhibition Center

Not far from the [Fuji Five Lakes](e6900.html), the Maglev Exhibition Center (リニア見学センター, Linear Kengaku Center) was opened in 2011 along the test track for the next-generation, magnetic levitating (maglev) trains that can run at over 500 km/h. The technology will be used for the [Chuo Shinkansen](e2018.html), a new train line that will begin operation sometime in the 2030s between Tokyo and [Nagoya](e2160.html) and will eventually be extended to [Osaka](e2157.html).

The exhibition center is a museum where visitors can learn about the science and history of maglev trains. Here you can see and touch the actual trains and their structures, including the vehicle that set the train speed world record of 603 kilometers per hour, and try hands-on experiments with maglev technology. The center also features a miniature maglev train that visitors can ride.

Miniature maglev train experience

Furthermore, it is possible to observe test runs along the track from the center on most weekdays and Saturdays. Operation dates for each week are usually posted to the [official website](http://linear-museum.pref.yamanashi.jp/english/) on the previous Friday evening; however, operation times are only announced at the facility itself.

It is also possible to ride the trains during their test runs during certain times of the year; however, reservations are required and must be made about two to three months in advance. More information can be found at the [JR Central website](http://linear.jr-central.co.jp/experience/) (Japanese only).

Part of the test track that can be seen from the exhibition center

Take the JR Chuo Line from [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s [Shinjuku](e3011.html) Station to Otsuki Station (60 minutes, 2360 yen one way by [limited express](e2016.html) or 80-90 minutes, 1340 yen by [slower trains](e2016.html) with a transfer along the way). At Otsuki, change to a [bus](e2015.html) bound for the Linear Exhibition Center (15 minutes, 380 yen one way, every 1-2 hours). The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and [other JR passes](e2357.html) are valid on the trains but not on the bus.

Alternatively, at Otsuki Station transfer to the Fujikyu Railway for Kawaguchiko and get off at Tanokura (5 minutes, 230 yen, 1-2 trains/hour) from where the Maglev Exhibition Center is a 20-30 minute walk. The [Tokyo Wide Pass](e2361_06.html) is valid on Fujikyu trains, but the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and [other JR passes](e2357.html) are not.

A [taxi](e2021.html) ride between Otsuki Station and the center costs 2500-3000 yen one way.

[How to get to and around the Fuji Five Lakes](/e/e6905.html)