---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6611.html
title: Takefu Knife Village
description: Visitor guide for the Takefu Knife Village, a workshop and shop for locally produced knives.
keywords: takefu, knife, village, fukui
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 649
char_count: 4609
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:30:16
---

The Takefu Knife Village is a workshop, shop and museum dedicated to the craft of forging [knives and cutting tools](e2424_knives.html). It is located about 20 kilometers south of [Fukui City](e6600.html) in Echizen City.

The village consists of multiple buildings. A cylindrical building houses a small museum about the history of knife making in the area as well as an observation platform that overlooks a large workshop and lets visitors watch craftsmen at work.

The factory floor, seen from a observation platform

Separate buildings with distinctive triangular roofs contain a shop with many kinds of bladed tools available for purchase, a knife-related art installation and smaller workshops, where a range of [hands-on experiences](e2424_knives.html) are available if booked in advance, from factory tours to a 6-hour course that covers all aspects of making a kitchen knife (see [links below](#section_links)).

Echizen's tradition of metalwork is said to date to the [14th century](e2134.html), when a master sword maker settled there and adapted his advanced forging techniques to create high quality farming tools rather than weapons. Over the centuries, Echizen steel continued to grow in reputation, with the region becoming something of a knife making powerhouse.

A craftsman at work on one of the machines

Following the [Second World War](e2129.html), the local industry went into decline due to the proliferation of cheap, machine-made cutlery and tools. In response, many of the local smiths banded together to share their processes and brainstorm new designs. The project would become a great success, as Echizen established itself as a leading region for traditional knife production.

Just a five minute walk from the Takefu Knife Village is **Manyo no Sato Ajimanoen**, a large [landscape garden](e2099.html) made to commemorate the area's connection to the Manyoshu, Japan's first book of [poems](e2112.html), compiled in the [Nara Period](e2132.html) (710-784). The park contains many of the plants and flowers referenced in the collection and is especially known for its [plum](e2013.html) and [cherry](e2011.html) trees, which bloom in early to late March and late March to mid April respectively. In addition, it features an old, relocated farmhouse, which can be entered.

Manyo Ajimanoen Garden

Take the Hapi Line Fukui from Fukui to Takefu (20 minutes, 380 yen one way, 2-3 trains/hour). From Takefu Station, there are highly infrequent [buses](e2015.html) that stop near the Takefu Knife Village. Take a bus bound for Iritani and get off at Ajimano Jinja-mae (味真野神社前, 25 minutes, 460 yen one way) from where it is a ten minute walk to the Takefu Knife Village. Alternatively, a [taxi](e2021.html) ride from Takefu Station takes about 15 minutes and costs around 3500 yen one way.

If arriving by [Hokuriku Shinkansen](e2018_nagano.html), get off at Echizen Takefu Station, from where the Takefu Knife Village can be reached by [taxi](e2021.html) in about 10 minutes and for around 2500 yen one way.

[How to get to and around Fukui](e6603.html)