---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6435.html
title: Boso Flower Line
description: Travel guide for the Boso Flower Line, a long stretch of road through fields of seasonal flowers at the southern tip of the Boso Peninsula.
keywords: boso, peninsula, flower, line, field, park, garden, chikura, tateyama, lighthouse, light, house, nojimasaki, nojimazaki, family
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 567
char_count: 4052
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:36:06
---

The Boso Flower Line is an approximately 45 kilometer long road that follows the coast along the southern tip of the [Boso Peninsula](e6430.html) between [Tateyama](e6434.html) and Chikura. Several flower farms and parks are located along the road. The area is particularly popular from January to April when nanohana (rapeseed flowers), poppies and other [spring flowers](e2423.html) are in bloom. The following are some of the more notable attractions found along the Boso Flower Line:

* 

  Tateyama Aloha Garden

  Hours: 9:30 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Admission: 1300 yen  
  Closed: No closing days

  The Aloha Garden Tateyama (previously Nanbo Paradise) is a large Hawaiian-themed park with tropical plants in numerous greenhouses. There is also a small zoo with capybara, sheep, emus, monkeys and birds, and visitors can feed or pet some of the animals. Not far from the entrance stands an observation tower where visitors can get an overview of the surroundings. In addition, there is a restaurant and cafe just outside the park entrance.
* 

  Nojimasaki Lighthouse

  Hours: 9:00 to 16:30 (until 16:00 from October to March)  
  Admission: 300 yen  
  Closed: during inclement weather

  Nojimasaki Lighthouse was built in the early [Meiji Period](e2130.html) (1868-1912) at the southernmost point of the [Boso Peninsula](e6430.html). It holds the honor of being the second oldest lighthouse in Japan. Visitors can enter the tower and visit the small museum at its base. There are also a few walking trails around the cape with monuments related to the area and beautiful views of the Pacific Ocean.
* 

  Shiramazu Flower Fields

  Open from January to March  
  Hours: Varies depending on stall  
  Admission: Free

  The Shiramazu Flower Fields (Shiramazu Ohanabatake) are a collection of small flower farms where various [flowers](e2423.html) are grown for sale and picking. A michi-no-eki rest area is located across the road of the flower fields with public facilities, such as free parking, toilets, and shops selling ready cut flowers and plants.
* 

  Senda Flower Fields

  Open from January to March  
  Hours: Varies depending on stall  
  Admission: Free

  The Senda Flower Fields (Senda no Hanabatake) are another collection of small flower farms where visitors can view, purchase and pick flowers. The fields are located at the Chikura Okoku michi-no-eki rest area which offers views of the ocean, restaurants, free parking and toilets (the rest area is closed on off-season Wednesdays).

The Boso Flower Line connects [Tateyama](e6434.html) with Chikura. It is best explored by [rental car](e2024.html). The nearest rental car outlets are found in Tateyama.

[Buses](e2015.html) run about hourly along National Route 410. A JR bus (covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), [JR East Nagano Niigata Area Pass](e2361_nagano_niigata.html) and [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html)) connects Tateyama with Awa-Shirahama via the Nojimasaki Lighthouse, while a non-JR bus connects Awa-Shirahama with Chikura Station. While the Nojimasaki Lighthouse and Shiramazu Flower Fields are well served by the above bus lines, some walking is required to reach the other spots listed on this page.

[How to get to and around the Boso Peninsula](e6431.html)