---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6343.html
title: Kakegawa Tea-related attractions
description: Guide on how tourists can appreciate tea in Kakegawa City's, a major tea producing region in Japan.
keywords: kakegawa, tea, leaf, leaves, field, fields, picking, ninomaru, kiwi
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 458
char_count: 3226
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:27:25
---

Mount Awagatake surrounded by tea fields

[Shizuoka Prefecture](/list/e1218.html) produces more [tea](e2041.html) than any other prefecture in Japan. Within Shizuoka, [Kakegawa](e6340.html) serves as one of the centers of tea, with tea accounting for a significant portion of the city's economy. The importance of tea to Kakegawa is illustrated in the outskirts of the city, where, in some areas, seemingly endless tea fields cover rolling hills for acres upon acres.

Some of the best views of the tea fields can be had to the northeast of the city center, surrounding **Mount Awagatake**, which itself bears the [Chinese character](e2046.html) for "tea" on its face written in bushes. From this area it is possible to get views of the tea fields with [Mount Fuji](e2172.html) looming in the distance. Be careful and considerate when [driving](e2024.html) around this area, as some of the roads can be narrow and steep.

Looking upon Mount Fuji from in between tea bushes

Known as among Japan's top [tea](e2041.html)-producing areas, [Kakegawa](e6340.html) is home to various other attractions centered around tea. The **Ninomaru Tea House** within the grounds of [Kakegawa Castle](e6342.html) allows visitors the chance to be served tea and a Japanese dessert in traditional surroundings with nice views of the outside [garden](e2099.html). It is also possible to rent out the tea house for a [tea ceremony](e2096.html).

**Kiwi Fruits Country** is a [kiwi fruit](e2347.html) farm on the edge of the city, which also manages a tea plantation and offers various hands-on experiences involving tea, such as picking tea leaves. English guidance is available. There are also various other activities offered at the farm including kiwi picking and outdoor barbecues. Note that many experiences are only seasonably available, with the tea picking experiences generally possible from April to October.

Ninomaru Tea House within the grounds of Kakegawa Castle

The **tea fields surrounding Mount Awagatake** are around a 30 minute [drive](e2024.html) north of central Kakegawa. Access by public transportation is not possible.

The **Ninomaru tea house** stands within the [Kakegawa Castle](e6342.html) grounds (outside of the paid area), around a ten minute walk north of Kakegawa Station.

**Kiwi Fruits Country** is a 15 minute drive southeast of the station or a 10 minute drive from the Kakegawa IC on the [Tomei Expressway](e2354.html). Access by public transportation is not provided.

[How to get to and around Kakegawa](e6341.html)