---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6031.html
title: How to get to and around Karuizawa\: Access, Transportation and Orientation
description: How to get to and around Karuizawa.
keywords: karuizawa, access, orientation, transportation, directions, get there, train, bus
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2274
char_count: 15127
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:18:33
---

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

[Karuizawa](e6030.html) can be reached from [Tokyo](e2164.html) in 65-80 minutes by the [JR Hokuriku Shinkansen](e2018_nagano.html). The one way journey costs about 5,500 yen and is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), [JR Tokyo Wide Pass](e2361_06.html) and several other [JR passes](e2357.html).

[Highway buses](e2366.html) make five round trips per day between Tokyo's [Ikebukuro Station](e3038.html) and Karuizawa Station. The one way journey takes three hours and costs 2300-2900 yen depending on the day of travel. Online reservations can be made through [Japan Bus Online](https://japanbusonline.com/en/AreaSearch2/3130000/4203211/afcd=MDI=).

[Book Now](https://japanbusonline.com/en/AreaSearch2/3130000/4203211/afcd=MDI=)

Kusakaru buses operate every 1-2 hours between Karuizawa and [Kusatsu Onsen](e7400.html), stopping at the [Shiraito Waterfall](e6034.html) along the way. The one way ride takes about 80 minutes and costs 2240 yen.

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

Karuizawa can be reached from [Nagano](e6000.html) in 35 minutes by the [JR Hokuriku Shinkansen](e2018_nagano.html). The one way journey costs about 3500 yen and is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html). Alternatively, the one way trip by Shinano Railway takes 90-100 minutes, but cost only 1670 yen. There are one or two departures hourly and most require a change of trains at Komoro Station. JR passes are not valid on the Shinano Railway.

Multiple companies operate [overnight buses](e2366.html) between [Osaka](e2057.html), [Kyoto](e2058.html) and Karuizawa. The one way ride takes eight hours and costs around 9500 yen.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

The main transportation hub of [Karuizawa](e6030.html) is **Karuizawa Station**, which is served by the [Hokuriku Shinkansen](e2018_nagano.html), Shinano Railway, [local buses](e2015.html) and [highway buses](e2366.html). While some of the town's sights can be reached on foot from the station, others are distributed quite far across a relatively wide area and are best reached by [bus](e2015.html), [taxi](e2021.html), [rental car](e2024.html) or [bicycle](e2210.html). A secondary transport hub is Naka-Karuizawa Station, one station west of Karuizawa by Shinano Railway.

The local **bus network** is operated by two companies, Kusakaru Kotsu and Seibu, and connects Karuizawa Station to the various attractions around town and beyond:

The most important lines are the hourly buses by **Kusakaru Kotsu** from Karuizawa Station via the Kyu-Karuizawa Ginza (160 yen, 5 minutes), the former Mikasa Hotel (270 yen, 10 minutes) and the [Shiraito Waterfall](e6034.html) (720 yen, 25 minutes) in direction of [Kusatsu Onsen](e7400.html) and by **Seibu** from Karuizawa Station via the Kyu-Karuizawa Ginza (150 yen, 5 minutes) to [Naka-Karuizawa](e6033.html) (350 yen, 15 minutes). While many of the Seibu buses terminate at Karuizawa Eigyosho, a few of them continue to the [Onioshidashi Park](e6036.html) (1300 yen, 35 minutes) and further to [Manza Onsen](e7495.html).

In addition, there are a few loop bus lines that connect the stations with several attractions around town. The **Karuizawa Free Pass** allows unlimited rides on the above-mentioned buses (but not beyond Onioshidashi, and not including the Karuizawa Aka Bus) plus rides on the Shinano Railway between Karuizawa and Komoro stations. A 1-day pass costs 2500 yen, while a 2-day pass is available for 3600 yen. They are sold by Shinano Railway at Karuizawa, Naka-Karuizawa and Komoro stations.

Karuizawa is also suitable for exploration by [bicycle](e2210.html). Many rental shops can be found close to Karuizawa Station and the Karuizawa Ginza area. Rental fees start around 500 yen per hour or around 1500 yen per day, while electric bicycles are avaiable for a little bit more. Another alternative is to travel by [rental car](e2024.html). Rental car outlets can be found around Karuizawa Station.