---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6303.html
title: Cape Irozaki
description: Visitor guide for Cape Irozaki on the breathtaking south coast of the Izu Peninsula.
keywords: irozaki, cape, coast, izu, peninsula
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1808
char_count: 11548
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:16:50
---

Cape Irozaki

Cape Irozaki (石廊崎, Irōzaki) is the southernmost tip of the [Izu Peninsula](e6310.html). The Irozaki lighthouse and Iro Shrine can be found at the cape. The [shrine](e2059.html) is built into the rocks at the very tip of the cape and offers beautiful views of the craggy coast.

The coast around **Cape Irozaki** is rugged and relatively unspoiled, and can be viewed from sightseeing cruises, which last about 25 minutes. There are also other nice capes along the southern coastline with rocky shorelines and some of the [peninsula's best beaches](e6322.html).

Cape Tarai

The other capes and beaches along the southern coast of [Izu](e6310.html) are less touristically developed, but nevertheless pleasant. One of the nicest is **Cape Tarai**, eight kilometers east of Cape Irozaki. The cape has a stony beach and nature trails which lead through the forest.

Another three kilometers east of Cape Tarai is **Toji**, a tiny beach town with other attractions such as the naturally formed Ryugu Sea Cave that looks like a heart when seen from above. There is also a natural sand ski ground a few steps away from the sea cave. Visitors can rent boards from nearby lodgings and use them to slide down the sandy slope.

Natural sand ski grounds at Toji

Tokai Bus operates hourly [buses](e2015.html) between Izukyu-Shimoda Station and Cape Irozaki. From Izukyu-Shimoda Station, take a bus bound for Irozaki Oceanpark (石廊崎オーシャンパーク) and get off at the final stop (45 minutes, 1190 yen one way). From the bus stop, it is a few hundred meters on foot to the lighthouse and cape.

Cape Tarai is about a 30 minute walk east of Kyukamura (休暇村) bus stop, which can be reached in about 25 minutes from Izukyu-Shimoda Station along the same bus line (740 yen one way).

The sea cave and the sand ski ground in Toji are a five minute walk from the Ryugukutsu (龍宮窟) bus stop, about 20 minutes from Izukyu-Shimoda Station via buses bound for Toji (田牛, 20 minutes, 530 yen one way, about one bus/hour).

Tokai Bus offers the [Irozaki and Shimoda 2-Day Pass](e6305.html) for 2400 yen for unlimited use of buses in the southern Izu Peninsula, including the ones from Shimoda to Irozaki, Cape Tarai and Toji.

[How to get to and around the Izu Peninsula](e6305.html)