---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6905.html
title: Tokyo to Fuji Five Lakes\: How to get to and around Fuji Five Lakes
description: How to get to and around the Fuji Five Lakes (Fujigoko).
keywords: fuji, five, lakes, lake, fujigoko, yoshida, kawaguchi, access, orientation, transport, transportation, directions, train, bus
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2732
char_count: 18850
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:46:03
---

From/To:

TokyoOsakaKyotoHakoneShizuokaTakayama

Fujikyu and Keio Bus operate about two direct [buses](e2366.html) per hour between the [Shinjuku Bus Terminal](e3011.html) in [Tokyo](e2164.html) and Kawaguchiko Station in the [Fuji Five Lakes](e6900.html) region. The one way journey takes just under two hours and costs 2200 yen (2000 yen if purchased online). Most buses stop at Fujisan Station and [Fuji Q Highland](e6918.html) before arriving at Kawaguchiko Station and many of them continue on to Lake Yamanakako (just over two hours, 2300 yen one way from Shinjuku). The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) is not valid on these buses.

Fujikyu and JR Kanto Bus operate one to two direct [buses](e2366.html) per hour between [Tokyo](e2164.html) Station (Yaesu South Exit) and Kawaguchiko Station in the [Fuji Five Lakes](e6900.html) region. The one way trip takes about two hours and costs 2200 yen. Online reservations can be made through [Willer](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/tokyo/yamanashi/fujikawaguchiko/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184) and [Japan Bus Online](https://japanbusonline.com/en/AreaSearch2/3130000/4194301001/?afcd=MDI=). The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) is not valid on these buses.

[Book Now](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/tokyo/yamanashi/fujikawaguchiko/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184)

Fujikyu operates approximately one [bus](e2366.html) every two hours between [Shibuya](e3007.html) (Mark City), [Fuji Q Highland](e6918.html), Kawaguchiko Station and Fujisan Station. The one way journey takes 2 to 2.5 hours and costs 2200 yen. Online reservations can be made through [Willer](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/shibuya/yamanashi/fujikawaguchiko/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184). The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) is not valid on these buses.

[Book Now](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/shibuya/yamanashi/fujikawaguchiko/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184)

Take the JR Chuo Line from [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s [Shinjuku](e3011.html) Station to Otsuki Station (70 minutes, 2360 yen one way by direct [limited express](e2016.html) train or 100 minutes, 1340 yen by local trains with usually one transfer along the way). From Otsuki, take the Fujikyu Railway Line to Kawaguchiko Station (55 minutes, 1170 yen one way).

There are also a few direct [limited express](e2016.html) trains per day between Shinjuku and Kawaguchiko in each direction (about 2 hours, around 4000 yen one way, seat reservations are mandatory).

The [JR Tokyo Wide Pass](e2361_06.html) covers the entire journey between Tokyo and Kawaguchiko (except panorama seats on limited express trains); however, the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and [other JR passes](e2357.html) are not valid between Otsuki and Kawaguchiko. A supplement fee of 1170 yen (1770 yen for [limited express](e2016.html) trains) has to be paid for that section.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

The two major transportation hubs in the [Fuji Five Lake](e6900.html) region are **Kawaguchiko Station** and nearby **Fujisan Station**, both located along the Fujikyu Railway Line. From these two stations, [buses](e2015.html) depart into all directions, providing access to the five lakes and other attractions.

Bus network map:

The **Omni buses** are generally the easiest way for tourists to get around. There are three lines starting from Kawaguchiko Station: the red Kawaguchiko Line (every 15 minutes) runs along the eastern and northern shores of [Lake Kawaguchiko](e6906.html) while the green Saiko Line (every 30 minutes) runs along the southern shore of Lake Kawaguchiko and around [Lake Saiko](e6907.html). The blue Narusawa Shojiko Motosuko Line (every 1-2 hours) serves [Lake Shojiko](e6909.html) and [Lake Motosuko](e6910.html).

For transportation between [Kawaguchiko](e6906.html), Fujiyoshida, [Oshino Village](e6915.html) and around [Lake Yamanakako](e6908.html) the **Fujikko Bus** can be useful, with buses running every hour.

Apart from the above-mentioned tourist buses, there is a network of **regular buses**, which can be useful for access to the more remote Lake [Shojiko](e6909.html) and [Motosuko](e6910.html), as well as in the direction of [Oshino](e6915.html), [Lake Yamanakako](e6908.html) and Gotemba. Another bus line of interest connects Kawaguchiko Station with the [Fuji Subaru Line 5th Station](e6922.html) halfway up Mount Fuji.

A **rental car** can also be a convenient way to get around, especially if visiting places outside of central Kawaguchiko. A few [rental car](e2024.html) outlets can be found near Kawaguchiko Station. Similarly, a **rental bicycle** can be an attractive way to get around, although some roads in the region are rather busy and distances between the lakes are considerable.

Several passes are available for the [Fuji Five Lake](e6900.html) area, which can provide savings and comfort:

* **Kawaguchiko Saiko Motosuko Bus Pass** (1-day: 1500 yen; 2-day: 2000 yen)
    
  This pass is valid on the three Omni bus lines and other regular buses around [Kawaguchiko](e6906.html), [Saiko](e6907.html), [Shojiko](e6909.html) and [Motosuko](e6910.html) on one or two consecutive calendar days. It can be purchased at Kawaguchiko Station. The 1-day pass can also be purchased on board of the Omni buses.
* **Fujiyoshida Oshino Yamanakako Bus Pass** (1-day: 1800 yen; 2-day: 2200 yen)
    
  This pass is valid on the Fujikko bus and other regular buses around Fujiyoshida, [Oshino](e6915.html) and [Yamanakako](e6908.html) on one or two consecutive calendar days. It can be purchased at Fujisan Station, at the Yamanakako-Asahigaoka bus ticket counter and inside buses.
* **Fuji Hakone Pass** (11,100 yen)
    
  The [Fuji Hakone Pass](e2358_014.html) is a pass for foreign tourists, which provides transportation within the [Fuji Five Lakes](e6900.html) region and the neighboring [Hakone](e5200.html) area in addition to a round trip between Tokyo and Hakone.
* **Fuji Q Highland Plans**
    
  There are various discount travel plans available for a visit to the [Fuji Q Highland](e6918.html) amusement park. The plans combine access by bus with park passports and in some cases accommodation.
* **Fujisan Fujigoko Passport**
    
  This ticket provides unlimited use of Fujikyu buses around the [Fuji Five Lakes](e6900.html), including the Omni buses and the Fujikko bus on two consecutive calendar days. The pass is sold at the Fujikyu ticket counters at Kawaguchiko Station, Fujisan Station, Mishima Station, Fujinomiya Station, Gotemba Station and the Asashigaoka/Yamanakako bus stop. Two versions are available: one that also includes the entire Fujikyu Railway Line (4700 yen) and one that includes Fujikyu trains only between Kawaguchiko and Shimoyoshida Station (3300 yen). The following map shows the pass' coverage area: