---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6922.html
title: Fuji Subaru Line 5th Station (Yoshida Trail)
description: Visitor guide for the Fuji Subaru Line 5th Station, one of four 5th stations on Mount Fuji.
keywords: mt, mt., mount, fuji, kawaguchiko, subaru, line, kawaguchi, 5th, fifth, 5, station, trail, climb, climbing, hike, hiking, kofuji
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2590
char_count: 17021
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:46:11
---

The Fuji Subaru Line 5th Station (富士スバルライン五合目, Fuji Subaru Line Gogōme, also known as Yoshidaguchi 5th Station or Kawaguchiko 5th Station) lies at approximately the halfway point of the Yoshida Trail, which leads from [Fujiyoshida Sengen Shrine](e6903.html) at the mountain's base to the summit of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html).

It is the most popular of the four 5th stations on Mount Fuji and the best developed and easiest to access by public transportation from [Tokyo](e2164.html). The Fuji Subaru Line 5th Station is accessible almost year round, snow conditions permitting, and is a popular sightseeing spot even outside of the climbing season.

The station is reached by the **Fuji Subaru Line**, a scenic toll road up [Mount Fuji](e2172.html)'s lower northern slopes, that begins in Fujikawaguchiko Town. The toll road costs 2100 yen and may temporarily get partially closed in winter in times of heavy snow. Furthermore, the road is closed to private vehicles during most of the [climbing](e6901.html) season (July 5 to September 10, 2025), during which shuttle buses operate between designated parking lots at the base of the mountain and the 5th station.

The Fuji Subaru Line 5th Station provides parking lots, coin lockers and a few **restaurants and shops**, as it is the last chance for departing [climbers](e6901.html) to stock up on supplies at reasonable prices before they head out. Items such as hiking sticks, snacks, bottles of water and oxygen may be purchased here, although they are also available along the trail, albeit at prices that increase as you climb higher.

At 2300 meters above sea level, the Fuji Subaru Line 5th Station offers a commanding view of the [Fuji Five Lakes](e6900.html) area below, making it a popular spot even for those who are not intent on climbing the mountain. An observation point with unobstructed views of Fujiyoshida City and Lake Yamanaka can be found at **Komitake Shrine** behind the shops.

Komitake Shrine

The **Yoshida Trail** is the most popular [trail to the summit](e6901.html), and some sections can get very congested during the climbing season, especially above the 8th station. On the positive side, there are a lot of mountain huts along the trail and separate uphill and downhill tracks. The trail also has good views of the sunrise for those who do not make it to the summit in time. The ascent via the Yoshida Trail takes roughly 5-7 hours, and the return journey about 3-5 hours.

Besides the trail to the summit, there is the **Ochudo Trail**, which might be of interest to day-trip and off-season visitors who cannot hike to the summit but still wish to do some walking around the mountain. Rather than up the mountain, the Ochudo Trail leads around the mountain at about the same elevation. A five kilometer section of the trail can be walked from the Fuji Subaru Line 5th Station westwards. It also provides a connection to some of the more remote parking lots.

Ochudo Trail

The Fuji Subaru Line 5th Station is the only 5th station with daily bus service during most of the year (except when the road gets closed due to snow).

### By bus from Kawaguchiko Station

The one way trip takes 50 minutes and costs 1950 yen. A round trip ticket is available for 3000 yen and can be purchased [online](https://fujikyubus.quicktrip.jp/buy) and at ticket offices, but not inside the bus. In 2025, there are 3-7 buses per day in the off-season and hourly buses during the climbing season. Seat reservations are not possible.
  
[How to get to Kawaguchiko Station](e6905.html)
  
[Bus Timetable (climbing season)](/bus/fuji_season.html)
  
[Bus Timetable (off-season)](/bus/fuji.html)

### By bus from Shinjuku Station

Direct [highway buses](e2366.html) travel between the [Busta Shinjuku](e3011.html) bus terminal in [Tokyo](e2164.html) and the Fuji Subaru Line 5th Station from spring to autumn. There are 2-3 round trips per day during the off-season and hourly buses during the climbing season, but the last bus of the day arrives at the 5th station already at 12:10. The one way ride takes about 150 minutes and costs 3800 yen. Seat reservations are required.
  
[Bus Timetable (climbing season)](/bus/fuji_season.html)
  
[Bus Timetable (off-season)](/bus/fuji.html)

### By taxi or rental car

Another option is to take a [taxi](e2021.html) to the 5th station. A regular sized taxi takes about 50 minutes and costs about 14,000 yen one way from Kawaguchiko Station (including the fee for the toll road). [Rental cars](e2024.html) are available from outlets around Kawaguchiko Station, but note that the Subaru Line Toll Road (2100 yen) to the Fuji Subaru Line 5th Station is closed to private vehicles during most of the climbing season (July 5 to September 10, 2025).

[How to get to and around the Fuji Five Lakes](e6905.html)