---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6140.html
title: Shimonoseki Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for the city of Shimonoseki, Japan
keywords: shimonoseki, travel, tourist, guide, japan, chofu, kanmon, tunnel, bridge, jokamachi, karato, aquarium, tower, shunpanro
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1776
char_count: 11994
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:50:31
---

Shimonoseki (下関) is a city in [Yamaguchi Prefecture](/list/e1239.html) at the westernmost tip of Japan's largest island, Honshu. The 650 meter wide Kanmon Strait, a very busy sea lane, separates the city from the island of [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html). As the gateway to Kyushu, Shimonoseki has long been a major transportation hub, although the construction of bridges and tunnels across the strait has diminished the city's position somewhat.

Surrounded by water on three sides, Shimonoseki is naturally known for its seafood. Most famous is **pufferfish**, or fuku as it is locally known. Large numbers of pufferfish pass through the local fish markets everyday and are enjoyed by diners at restaurants across the city.

Cannons below the Kanmon Bridge commemorate the 1864 bombardment of Shimonoseki

The Kanmon Strait was the site of two famous battles. In the late 12th century, the deciding battle during the [Genpei War](e2132.html) - considered Japan's first large-scale civil war - between the Minamoto and Taira [samurai](e2127.html) families took place at Dannoura in Shimonoseki. The **Battle of Dannoura** was fought at sea and ended with the Minamoto defeating the Taira and [establishing a new government in Kamakura](e2133.html).

Seven centuries later, Shimonoseki was controlled by the Choshu Clan, which played a key role in overthrowing the [Tokugawa shogunate](e2128.html) in the [Meiji Restoration](e2130.html). In the lead-up to the Meiji Restoration, the Choshu forces, infuriated by the inroads made by the Western imperialists and the shogunate's inability to stop them, repeatedly attacked Western ships in the Kanmon Strait, which led to the **bombardment of Shimonoseki** by Western powers in 1864.

### City center

Central Shimonoseki is located near the tip of Honshu and offers a number of attractions, including a pleasant waterfront area with a fish market and an aquarium:

* 

  Karato Market•

  Hours: 5:00 to 15:00 (from 8:00 on Sundays and [national holidays](e2062.html))  
  Closed: selected Wednesdays, [New Year](e2276.html)  
  Admission: Free

  Karato Market is a local [fish market](e2452.html) specializing in pufferfish amongst other types of fish. The market is located in a large warehouse at the eastern end of the waterfront area. The auction space, the stalls of the intermediate wholesalers and the shops of small business fishmongers as well as green grocers can all be found on the hall's ground floor. Some restaurants are located on the second floor. Special food events for tourists are held on Fridays, Saturdays, Sundays and [public holidays](e2062.html) (10:00 to 15:00, from 8:00 on Sundays and holidays), while wholesale activity pauses on Sundays and national holidays.
* 

  Kaikyokan Aquarium

  Hours: 9:30 to 17:30 (entry until 17:00)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 2500 yen

  The Kaikyokan Aquarium is an [aquarium](e2425.html) in Shimonoseki that has about 500 species of fish, including over 100 varieties of pufferfish from all around the world. While the main focus is on marine life found in the Kanmon Strait, the aquarium also has penguins, dolphins and sea lions. Kaikyokan is one of the better aquaria in Japan, and the penguin enclosure is particularly delightful.
* 

  European-style buildings

  Former British Consulate Building:  
  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free

  A few European-style buildings from the [Meiji Period](e2130.html) (1868-1912) can be found along the waterfront, serving as a reminder of the former importance of Shimonoseki as a trade hub. Of note are the Former British Consulate Building, which is open to tourists, the Former Akita Commerce Building and the Shimonoseki Nabecho Post Office which still operates as one of Japan's oldest [post offices](e2224.html).
* 

  Kaikyo Yume Tower

  Hours: 9:30 to 21:30 (entry until 21:00)  
  Closed: Fourth Saturday in January  
  Admission: 600 yen

  The Kaikyo Yume Tower is a 153 meter tall [tower](e2326.html), a ten minute walk from Shimonoseki Station. The observatory on the top floor stands at 143 meters and provides panoramic views of the surroundings. The tower is also illuminated in the evenings.
* 

  Akama Shrine

  Hours: Always open (treasure hall: 9:00 to 16:30)  
  Admission: Free (100 yen for treasure hall)

  Akama Shrine is a [Shinto shrine](e2059.html) overlooking the Kanmon Strait. It is dedicated to the spirit of child Emperor Antoku who perished in the 12th century Battle of Dannoura, which took place not far from the shrine. At the entrance of the shrine stands the prominent Suitenmon gate which carries a vermilion roof on top of a white arch foundation.
* 

  Shunpanro Hall (Sino-Japanese Peace Memorial Hall)

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free

  Shunpanro is a hotel and restaurant next to [Akama Shrine](#akama), looking over the Kanmon Strait and with a history dating back to the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868). In 1895, the hotel's Shunpanro Hall served as the site where delegates from Japan and China met to sign the Treaty of Shimonoseki and end the [First Sino-Japanese War](e2130.html).

### Kanmon Bridge and surroundings

The Kanmon Bridge is one of the major attractions in Shimonoseki. The suspension bridge has a length of 1068 meters and six car lanes, connecting Honshu to [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html) across the strait. There are a few sites of interest around the bridge:

* 

  Kanmon Pedestrian Tunnel

  Hours: 6:00 to 22:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free for pedestrians, 20 yen for bicycles and mopeds

  The Kanmon Pedestrian Tunnel is a 780 meter long undersea tunnel connecting the city of Shimonoseki on Honshu to [Moji Port](e4878.html) on the island of [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html). In order to access the tunnel, visitors have to take an elevator to a depth of around 50-60 meters. The prefectural border between [Yamaguchi](/list/e1239.html) and [Fukuoka](/list/e1242.html) is marked along the way.
* 

  Battle Monuments

  Hours: Always open  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free

  Two battle monuments line the waterfront at Mimosusogawa Park which also affords great views of the Kanmon Bridge. The first is a row of replica Choshu cannons that point towards the Kanmon Strait, a reminder of the battles fought in [1864](e2128.html) against the Western powers. The other monument consists of two statues depicting the leaders of the Minamoto and Taira clans in their clash at the Battle of Dannoura during the [Genpei War](e2132.html). The park lies across the street from the entrance to the Kanmon Pedestrian Tunnel.
* 

  Hinoyama Park

  The ropeway leading to Hinoyama Park is currently being rebuilt and out of service. It is scheduled to reopen by spring 2027.

  Hinoyama Park is a park at the top of Mount Hinoyama, overlooking the Kanmon Strait. A ropeway leads from near the Kanmon Pedestrian Tunnel entrance to the park where an observation deck allows visitors to enjoy panoramic views of Shimonoseki and [Moji](e4878.html) across the strait as well as of the nearby mountain ranges. Those visiting by [car](e2024.html) can also drive up the mountain.

### Chofu Town

Chofu is now a district of Shimonoseki City, located about eight kilometers inland from the city center. It is the site of a former castle town of the Mori Clan. The [castle](e2296.html) was destroyed in 1615 because of a law that allowed only one castle per feudal domain; however some other historical sites are surviving to this date:

* 

  Chofu Mori Residence

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:40)  
  Closed: December 28 to January 4  
  Admission: 210 yen

  The Chofu Mori Residence (Chōfu Mōri-tei) was constructed by the last Mori lord and completed in 1903, more than 30 years after the end of the [feudal era](e2128.html). It was used as a private residence for several years and also hosted [Emperor Meiji](e2135.html) on his way to [Kumamoto](e4500.html). The room where the emperor stayed can still be seen by visitors today.

- 

  Kozanji Temple

  Kozanji Temple, not far from the [Mori Residence](#moriresidence), is one of the oldest [temples](e2058.html) constructed in the Zen-style in Japan and is designated a national treasure. The temple is a popular [autumn color](e2014.html) viewing spot in Shimonoseki.
- 

  Iminomiya Shrine

  Iminomiya Shrine is a [shrine](e2059.html) in the center of the former castle town. It has a long history and was even mentioned in the [Nihon Shoki](e2110.html), one of the two oldest written historical records of Japan. Nearby stands Nogi Shrine which is dedicated to the local General Nogi who played a vital role in defeating Russia in the [Russo-Japanese War](e2130.html).
- 

  Chofu Garden

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: December 28 to January 4  
  Admission: 210 yen

  Chofu Garden (Chōfu Teien) is a pleasant [Japanese garden](e2099.html) that used to serve as the residence of a high ranking official. The central pond is surrounded by several historical buildings. A variety of flowers are planted in the garden and provide seasonal views through the year.

### How to get to Shimonoseki

#### By train from Tokyo/Osaka

Shimonoseki (Shin-Shimonoseki Station), [Osaka](e2157.html) (Shin-Osaka Station) and [Tokyo](e2164.html) are connected with each other by the [Tokaido](e2018_tokaido.html)/[Sanyo Shinkansen](e2018_sanyo.html). A transfer at Shin-Yamaguchi or Tokuyama to a [Kodama](e2018_sanyo.html) train is typically required. The one way journey takes around 5 hours and 21,000 yen from Tokyo, or around 2.5 hours and 14,000 yen from Osaka. [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) holders need to pay a supplement if using the [Nozomi](e2018_sanyo.html), the fastest train category.

#### By air from Tokyo

JAL, ANA and Starflyer operate several [flights](e2365.html) per day between [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s [Haneda Airport](e2430.html) and Yamaguchi-Ube Airport. Flight duration is about 100 minutes. The regular one way fare is around 55,000 yen, but [discount tickets](e2364.html) are typically available for 16,000 to 23,000 yen. Airport buses connect Shimonoseki Station to Yamaguchi-Ube Airport (80 minutes, 3000 yen one way).

#### From Kitakyushu

The one way trip from Kokura Station in [Kitakyushu](e4875.html) to Shimonoseki by [local train](e2016.html) takes around 15 minutes and costs 340 yen.

#### From Fukuoka

A [shinkansen](e2018.html) ride from [Fukuoka](e2161.html) (Hakata Station) to Shin-Shimonoseki Station takes 25 minutes and costs around 3500-4000 yen. From Shin-Shimonoseki Station, it is another ten minute [local train](e2016.html) ride to Shimonoseki Station.

Alternatively, it is possible to travel by train with a transfer at [Kokura Station](e4875.html). If using a [shinkansen](e2018.html) between Hakata and Kokura, the one way journey takes around 45 minutes and costs about 2500 yen (in case of non-reserved seats). If using a [limited express](e2016.html), the journey takes around one hour and costs about 2000 yen one way. And if the journey is done entirely by [local trains](e2016.html), it takes around 100 minutes and costs 1500 yen one way.

### How to get around Shimonoseki

Shimonoseki has two main train stations: **Shimonoseki Station** in the city center, which is served by local trains, and **Shin-Shimonoseki Station**, which is served by [Kodama](e2018_sanyo.html) trains along the [Sanyo Shinkansen](e2018_sanyo.html). Shin-Shimonoseki Station can be reached in a 10 minute ride from Shimonoseki Station by local train.

Good walkers can explore the sights in city center on foot. The aquarium and market are about two kilometers from Shimonoseki Station, while the Kanmon Bridge is about four kilometers away. Alternatively, there is a network of [city buses](e2015.html). Rental [bicycles](e2210.html) are available from Shimonoseki Station for around 600 yen per day.

The [Chofu](#chofu) former castle town is located about eight kilometers from Shimonoseki Station. Note that Chofu's sites of interest are not located close to Chofu Station, and that they are better accessed by bus to Jōkamachi Chōfu (城下町長府) from either Shimonoseki Station (25 minutes, 390 yen one way) or Shin-Shimonoseki Station (15 minutes, 320 yen one way).