---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6319.html
title: Kiunkaku Former Ryokan
description: Visitor guide for Kiunkaku, a historical ryokan in Atami.
keywords: kiunkaku, atami, ryokan, garden, izu, peninsula
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1657
char_count: 10662
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:16:43
---

Part of Kiunkaku former ryokan from the landscaped inner garden

Kiunkaku (起雲閣) was built in 1919 by a shipping magnate to serve as his private villa. In 1947 the property became a [ryokan](e2029.html) where it continued to serve guests until 1999. During this time various rooms and buildings were added, which were designed in a Japanese architectural style with Western and East Asian influenced interior design. One of the more striking of these rooms is the facility's Roman-style tiled baths.

Kiunkaku is now owned by [Atami City](e6317.html) and has been preserved as a cultural property. Visitors can enter the buildings, see the original designs of some of the guest rooms, and walk around the beautiful [landscape garden](e2099.html) that lies at the center of the complex. Kiunkaku also has a music hall, an exhibition gallery and a Japanese style room which may be rented out for community events. In addition, there is a cafe where visitors can enjoy [tea](e2041.html) and [sweets](e2312.html) with a view of the garden.

The Roman-styled baths

Kiunkaku is a 20 minute walk from Atami Station or a stop on the [Yuyu Sightseeing Loop Bus](e6317.html#section_get_there) (about 25 minutes from Atami Station, 300 yen per ride or 800 yen for a 1-day pass, currently operating on weekends only).

[How to get to and around Atami](e6317.html#section_get_there)
  
[How to get to and around the Izu Peninsula](e6305.html)