---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6028.html
title: Jigokudani Monkey Park (Snow Monkeys)
description: Visitor guide for Yamanouchi's Jigokudani Monkey Park, which is unique for its wild monkeys that bathe in the park's natural hot spring baths.
keywords: snow, monkey, monkeys, jigokudani, park, onsen, bath
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2259
char_count: 15036
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:04:58
---

The Jigokudani Monkey Park (地獄谷野猿公苑, Jigokudani Yaen Kōen) offers visitors the unique experience of seeing wild monkeys bathing in a [natural hot spring](e2292.html). The park is inhabited by Japanese Macaques, which are also known as Snow Monkeys. It is located in the monkey's natural habitat, in the forests of the Jigokudani valley in [Yamanouchi](e6025.html), not far from the [onsen towns](e2292.html) of [Shibu](e6029.html) and [Yudanaka](e6024.html).

The park has one man-made pool around which the monkeys gather, located a few minutes' walk from the park entrance. Visitors may already encounter monkeys along the path to the pool. The monkeys live in large social groups, and it can be quite entertaining to watch their interactions. Accustomed to humans, they can be observed from close and almost completely ignore their human guests. Naturally, it is prohibited to touch or feed the monkeys.

The park has a small information center, which includes an explanation of the alpha male system of the monkey troop, as well as portraits of the park's present and former alpha males, dating back dozens of years. There is an [online live camera](http://www.jigokudani-yaenkoen.co.jp/livecam/monkey/) beside the monkey pool.

Tourists, a monkey sitting on the park's live video camera, and the monkey bath

Although the park is open all year round, the bathing monkeys are particularly photogenic when the area is covered in snow. There is usually snow in the region from December to March, and the best timing for a visit is January and February. Monkeys enter the bath around the year, but they sometimes need some encouragement to do so by park wardens throwing food into the pool, especially during the warmer seasons of the year.

The monkeys are free to leave the park, and there are times when there are no monkeys around. To avoid disappointment, check the [official website](#section_links) before your visit. It includes frequent updates and forecasts about the presence of the monkeys.

Jigokudani, in which the park is located, means "[hell valley](e2327.html)" and is a common name for valleys with volcanic activity. Although its landscape is not as dramatic as some of Japan's other jigokudani, [Yamanouchi](e6025.html)'s Jigokudani does produce a few steaming hot springs. There is a [ryokan](e2029.html) called Korakukan in the valley, which visitors will pass along the way to the monkey park.

The approach through Jigokudani valley to the monkey park, passing Korakukan Ryokan

There are two approaches to the Monkey Park: one requires a 25-40 minute walk through the forest, while the other requires a 10-15 minute walk from the nearest parking lot.

The first approach involves taking a bus to the Snow Monkey Park bus stop from Yudanaka Station (10 minutes, 390 yen, 1-2 buses/hour), [Shibu Onsen](e6029.html) (5 minutes, 250 yen, 1-2 buses/hour) or Nagano Station (40 minutes, 2000 yen, hourly in winter; every 2-3 hours outside winter). From the Snow Monkey Park bus stop, it is a 30-40 minute walk to the monkey park. The walking trail is passable around the year, but sturdy footwear is recommended especially in winter.

The alternative approach involves a 10-15 minute walk from a paid parking lot just to the west of the monkey park. However the narrow road from [Shibu Onsen](e6029.html) to the parking lot is not served by public transportation and gets closed in winter. Although rather time-consuming, it would be possible to walk to the parking lot from Shibu Onsen in about 45-60 minutes when there is no snow.

Some [lodgings](e2025.html) in [Yudanaka](e6024.html) and [Shibu](e6029.html) offer their guests free rides to the parking lot.

[How to get to and around Yamanouchi](e6027.html)