---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6604.html
title: Tojinbo
description: Visitor guide for Tojinbo, a one kilometer stretch of towering rocky cliffs along the coast of Fukui.
keywords: tojinbo, cliffs, shoreline, coast, echizen, tower, fukui, travel
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 641
char_count: 4334
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:30:10
---

Tojinbo (東尋坊, Tōjinbō) is a one kilometer long stretch of rugged basalt cliffs along the Sea of Japan coast north of [Fukui City](e6600.html). The rocky coastline has been carved out by the waves, leaving deep chasms and precipitous bluffs that tower up to 30 meters above the water below. The coarse, pillar-shaped rocks look like bundles of hexagonal and pentagonal rods and are a rare geological formation that can be seen in only a few other spots in the world.

Tojinbo can be explored via trails which lead along the rocky embankment to various chasms and promontories. Visitors are free to walk right up to the unmarked edges of the bluffs. Watch your step and take heed as Tojinbo is named after a monk who, legend has it, fell to his untimely death along the cliffs. It is also possible to appreciate the towering bluffs from 30-minute long pleasure boat cruises; however, the boats do not run when waves are high.

The touristy approach from the bus stop and parking lot to the cliffs is lined by many [restaurants](e2036.html), food stands and souvenir shops, many of which offer local crabs and other seafood. About halfway along the approach stands the aging, 55 meter high Tojinbo Tower, which offers visitors a 360 degree panoramic view of the area, but note that you cannot see the cliffs from the tower.

The coastal trails extend north beyond Tojinbo and feature views of the seaside scenery and wildlife from various lookout points and rest huts. At the other end of the trail is a small fishing village and a red pedestrian bridge to Oshima Island. Visitors can hike around the small island to a [shrine](e2059.html) and additional rock formations.

Coastal trail between Tojinbo and Oshima Island

#### By Echizen Railway and bus from Fukui Station

Take the Echizen Railway from Fukui to Mikuniminato Station, the terminal station on the Mikuni Awara Line (50 minutes, 820 yen one way, 1-2 trains/hour). At Mikuniminato, take a [bus](e2015.html) to Tojinbo (5 minutes, 200 yen one way, hourly buses).

#### By bus from Awara Onsen Station

Hourly buses operate between Awara Onsen Station and Tojinbo (40 minutes, 790 yen one way or 1500 yen for a 2-day pass). Awara Onsen is a station along the [Hokuriku Shinkansen](e2018_nagano.html) (10 minutes, 1210 yen one way for an unreserved seat from [Fukui](e6600.html)) and Hapi Line Fukui (20 minutes, 380 yen one way from Fukui).

#### By car

A [rental car](e2024.html) is a convenient way to explore Tojinbo, and there are numerous paid parking lots in the area. Rental car outlets can be found around Fukui Station from where it is about a 45 minute drive to the cliffs.

[How to get to and around Fukui](e6603.html)