---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6500.html
title: Kawagoe Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Kawagoe City, the Little Edo near Tokyo, known for its warehouse district.
keywords: kawagoe, city, travel, guide, sightseeing, tourist, tourism, trip, visitor, information
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 306
char_count: 2500
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:49:23
---

Kawagoe (川越) is located about 30 minutes by train from central [Tokyo](e2164.html) and is suitable as a day trip destination. Its main street, lined with [Kurazukuri](e6501.html) (clay-walled warehouse-styled) buildings, retains an ambience reminiscent of an old town from the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1867) and allows us to imagine the streets from past centuries. Thereby, Kawagoe became known as "Little Edo".

During the [Edo Period](e2128.html), Kawagoe prospered as a supplier of commodities to Tokyo (then named Edo). As Kawagoe was an important city to the capital for trade and strategic purposes, the [shogun](e2127.html) installed some of their most loyal men as lords of [Kawagoe Castle](e6504.html). Close ties ensued between the two cities and over the years, Kawagoe inherited many aspects of the Edo culture and architecture.

One of the most important [temples](e2058.html) in the Greater Tokyo area, [Kitain Temple](e6502.html), is Kawagoe's other main attraction. It is home to the only remaining structures of the [former Edo Castle](e3018.html).

* [](/e/e6502.html)

  1

  Temple

  [Kitain Temple•](/e/e6502.html)

  Featuring a former building of Edo Castle.

  3.3

  

  320
* [](/e/e6501.html)

  2

  Historic Site

  [Warehouse District](/e/e6501.html)

  Street lined by historic, warehouse style buildings.

  3.4

  

  470
* [](/e/e6504.html)

  3

  Castle

  [Honmaru Goten](/e/e6504.html)

  Kawagoe Castle's only remaining building.

  3.1

  

  214
* [](/e/e6503.html)

  4

  Shopping

  [Candy Alley](/e/e6503.html)

  A narrow alley lined by candy stores.

  3.1

  

  413
* [](/e/e6506.html)

  5

  Museum

  [City Museum](/e/e6506.html)

  Good introduction to Kawagoe's history.

  2.9

  

  143

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Kawagoe](/e/e6500.html)

[Getting to and around Kawagoe](/e/e6505.html)
[See access info](/e/e6505.html)