---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e623a.html
title: Japan Travel Guide
description: Sightseeing guide for Japan.
keywords: japan, sightseeing, guide, region
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1365
char_count: 12061
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:40:26
---

Japan

Find Your Destination

## Regions of Japan

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Sapporo](/e/e2163.html)[Sapporo](/e/e2163.html)[Furano](/e/e6825.html)[Furano](/e/e6825.html)[Hakodate](/e/e5350.html)[Hakodate](/e/e5350.html)[Aomori](/e/e3750.html)[Aomori](/e/e3750.html)[Sendai](/e/e5150.html)[Sendai](/e/e5150.html)[Aizu](/e/e7700.html)[Aizu](/e/e7700.html)[Nikko](/e/e3800.html)[Nikko](/e/e3800.html)[Hakone](/e/e5200.html)[Hakone](/e/e5200.html)[Kanazawa](/e/e2167.html)[Kanazawa](/e/e2167.html)[Takayama](/e/e5900.html)[Takayama](/e/e5900.html)[Mt. Fuji](/e/e2172.html)[Mt. Fuji](/e/e2172.html)[Nagoya](/e/e2155.html)[Osaka](/e/e2157.html)[Osaka](/e/e2157.html)[Nara](/e/e2165.html)[Hiroshima](/e/e2160.html)[Hiroshima](/e/e2160.html)[Fukuoka](/e/e2161.html)[Fukuoka](/e/e2161.html)[Nagasaki](/e/e2162.html)[Nagasaki](/e/e2162.html)[Kagoshima](/e/e4600.html)[Kagoshima](/e/e4600.html)[Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html)[Tohoku](/list/e1102.html)[Kanto](/list/e1103.html)[Kanto](/list/e1103.html)[Chubu](/list/e1104.html)[Chubu](/list/e1104.html)[Kansai](/list/e1105.html)[Kansai](/list/e1105.html)[Chugoku](/list/e1106.html)[Chugoku](/list/e1106.html)[Shikoku](/list/e1107.html)[Shikoku](/list/e1107.html)[Kyushu](/list/e1108.html)[Kyushu](/list/e1108.html)[Okinawa](/list/e1247.html)

* [](/e/e2164.html)

  1

  [Tokyo•••](/e/e2164.html)

  Japan's capital and largest city.
* [](/e/e2158.html)

  2

  [Kyoto•••](/e/e2158.html)

  For over 1000 years the capital of Japan.
* [](/e/e2157.html)

  3

  [Osaka••](/e/e2157.html)

  Largest city of the Kinki Region.
* [](/e/e2165.html)

  4

  [Nara•••](/e/e2165.html)

  Japan's first permanent capital.
* [](/e/e2172.html)

  5

  [Mount Fuji•••](/e/e2172.html)

  The country's most iconic landmark.
* [](/e/e2160.html)

  6

  [Hiroshima••](/e/e2160.html)

  Regional capital with a tragic history.
* [](/e/e2166.html)

  7

  [Kamakura••](/e/e2166.html)

  Small city full of historic treasures.
* [](/e/e5200.html)

  8

  [Hakone•](/e/e5200.html)

  National park with views of Mount Fuji.
* [](/e/e3800.html)

  9

  [Nikko•••](/e/e3800.html)

  Site of Nikko Toshogu, Ieyasu’s mausoleum.
* [](/e/e2163.html)

  10

  [Sapporo•](/e/e2163.html)

  The largest city on the island of Hokkaido.
* [](/e/e2167.html)

  11

  [Kanazawa••](/e/e2167.html)

  City rich in culture and history.
* [](/e/e5900.html)

  12

  [Takayama••](/e/e5900.html)

  Preserves one of Japan’s nicest old towns.

[Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html)

[•• Shiretoko
National park on an unspoiled peninsula.](/e/e6850.html)
[•• Rishiri and Rebun
Small islands near Hokkaido's northern tip.](/e/e6875.html)
[•• Daisetsuzan
Hokkaido's largest and wildest national park.](/e/e6775.html)
[• Niseko
Leading snow resort with lots of powder snow.](/e/e6720.html)
[• Sapporo
The largest city on the island of Hokkaido.](/e/e2163.html)
[• Furano
Towns with beautiful lavender and flower fields.](/e/e6825.html)
[• Noboribetsu
Hokkaido's most famous hot spring resort.](/e/e6750.html)
[• Hakodate
Southernmost city on Hokkaido.](/e/e5350.html)
[• Otaru
Harbor city near Sapporo with a canal.](/e/e6700.html)
[• Akan Mashu National Park
National park with beautiful lakes.](/e/e6800.html)
[• Lake Toya
Site of Mount Usu, an active volcano.](/e/e6725.html)
[• Lake Shikotsu
Picturesque caldera lake near Sapporo.](/e/e6736.html)
[Matsumae
The only former castle town on Hokkaido.](/e/e5380.html)
[Asahikawa
City in central Hokkaido famous for its zoo.](/e/e6890.html)
[Rusutsu
Attractive ski resort near Niseko.](/e/e6715.html)
[Jozankei Onsen
Hot spring resort in the mountains outside central Sapporo.](/e/e6745.html)
[Tomamu
Large ski resort in central Hokkaido.](/e/e6845.html)
[Abashiri
Known for its prison and drift ice in winter.](/e/e6865.html)
[Kushiro
City in eastern Hokkaido near a large marshland](/e/e6790.html)
[Kiroro Ski Resort
Ski resort between Sapporo and Niseko.](/e/e6716.html)

[Tohoku](/list/e1102.html)

[•• Yamadera
Scenic temple on a steep mountainside.](/e/e7940.html)
[•• Dewa Sanzan
Three sacred mountains with shrines.](/e/e7900.html)
[• Ginzan Onsen
One of Japan's nicest, old-fashioned onsen towns.](/e/e7975.html)
[• Towada
Caldera lake famous for autumn colors.](/e/e3776.html)
[• Sanriku Coast
Pacific coastline that was hit by the 2011 tsunami.](/e/e5025.html)
[• Matsushima
Scenic bay dotted by pine clad islets.](/e/e5100.html)
[• Hiraizumi
Tohoku's former cultural and political capital.](/e/e5000.html)
[• Shimokita Hanto
Remote peninsula famed for Fear Mountain.](/e/e3725.html)
[• Zao
Volcano with hot spring and ski resort.](/e/e7925.html)
[• Hachimantai
Mountainous region with rustic hot springs.](/e/e3651.html)
[• Kakunodate
City with nicely preserved samurai district.](/e/e3601.html)
[• Hirosaki
Former castle town in Northern Tohoku.](/e/e3701.html)
[• Aizu
Small city known for its samurai history.](/e/e7700.html)
[• Appi Kogen
Leading ski resort in the Tohoku Region.](/e/e5095.html)
[• Bandai
Volcanic mountains with beautiful highlands.](/e/e7750.html)
[Tono
Rural town known for its folktales and legends.](/e/e5060.html)
[Shirakami Sanchi
Mountain range with virgin beech forests.](/e/e3790.html)
[Kaminoyama Onsen
Onsen town with castle and fruit farms.](/e/e7980.html)
[Naruko Gorge
Forested gorge famous for its autumn colors.](/e/e5177.html)
[Kamakura Festival
Festival in Yokote with lots of small snow houses.](/e/e3690.html)
[Sendai
Largest city in the Tohoku Region.](/e/e5150.html)
[Aomori
City best known for its Nebuta Matsuri.](/e/e3750.html)
[Sakata
Commercial center at the Sea of Japan coast.](/e/e7990.html)
[Kitakami
Popular cherry blossom spot in the Tohoku Region.](/e/e5077.html)
[Fukushima
Prefectural capital with a few attractions.](/e/e7725.html)
[Akita
Prefectural capital best known for its festival.](/e/e3625.html)
[Morioka
Prefectural capital famous for noodle dishes.](/e/e5050.html)
[Iwaki
City famous for its Hawaiian water park resort.](/e/e7775.html)

[Kanto](/list/e1103.html)

[••• Tokyo
Japan's capital and largest city.](/e/e2164.html)
[••• Nikko
Site of Nikko Toshogu, Ieyasu's mausoleum.](/e/e3800.html)
[•• Ogasawara Islands
Remote islands 1000 kilometers south of Tokyo.](/e/e8200.html)
[•• Kamakura
Small city full of historic treasures.](/e/e2166.html)
[• Hakone
National park with views of Mount Fuji.](/e/e5200.html)
[• Kusatsu Onsen
One of Japan's best hot spring towns.](/e/e7400.html)
[• Yokohama
Japan's second largest city.](/e/e2156.html)
[• Oze National Park
Popular hiking destination with a marshland.](/e/e7440.html)
[• Manza Onsen
Hot spring resort with Japan's most sulfuric waters.](/e/e7495.html)
[Izu Oshima
The largest island among the Izu Islands.](/e/e8252.html)
[Shima Onsen
Calm hot spring town in a mountain valley.](/e/e7435.html)
[Chichibu
Rural city known for its festival and shrines.](/e/e6550.html)
[Minakami
Popular hot spring and outdoor resort.](/e/e7460.html)
[Kawagoe
Former castle town known as the Little Edo.](/e/e6500.html)
[Boso Peninsula
Large peninsula southeast of Tokyo.](/e/e6430.html)
[Ikaho Onsen
Hot spring resort famous for its stone stairs.](/e/e7475.html)
[Nasu-Shiobara
Resort area with hiking trails and hot springs.](/e/e3840.html)
[Kinugawa Onsen
Hot spring resort with theme parks near Nikko.](/e/e3875.html)
[Mito
Prefectural capital known for its nice garden.](/e/e6200.html)
[Tomioka
Site of Japan's first modern silk factory.](/e/e7415.html)
[Saitama
City north of Tokyo with a few places of interest.](/e/e6525.html)
[Narita
Site of Tokyo's international airport.](/e/e6400.html)
[Kawasaki
Sandwiched between Tokyo and Yokohama.](/e/e3250.html)
[Utsunomiya
Prefectural capital of Tochigi Prefecture.](/e/e3860.html)
[Fukuroda Falls
One of Japan's top three waterfalls.](/e/e6250.html)
[Ushiku Daibutsu
Japan's tallest bronze statue of Buddha](/e/e6242.html)

[Chubu](/list/e1104.html)

[••• Mount Fuji
The country's most iconic landmark.](/e/e2172.html)
[•• Alpine Route
Spectacular route through the Northern Alps.](/e/e7550.html)
[•• Shirakawago & Gokayama
Mountainous region, known for its farmhouses.](/e/e5950.html)
[•• Kamikochi
Popular mountain resort in the Japanese Alps.](/e/e6040.html)
[•• Kiso Valley
Valley with nicely preserved post towns.](/e/e6075.html)
[•• Takayama
Preserves one of Japan's nicest old towns.](/e/e5900.html)
[•• Yamanouchi
Home of hot spring bathing monkeys.](/e/e6025.html)
[•• Kanazawa
City rich in culture and history.](/e/e2167.html)
[• Kurobe Gorge
Scenic gorge with a small sightseeing train.](/e/e7575.html)
[• Fuji Five Lakes
Lake resort at the foot of Mount Fuji.](/e/e6900.html)
[• Okuhida
Hot springs in the mountains above Takayama.](/e/e5940.html)
[• Sado Island
Large island off the coast of Niigata.](/e/e7675.html)
[• Izu Peninsula
Hot springs and natural scenery.](/e/e6310.html)
[• Matsumoto
City famous for its beautiful original castle.](/e/e6050.html)
[• Gujo-Hachiman
Small town in rural Japan with castle.](/e/e5930.html)
[• Hakuba
One of Japan's best ski resorts.](/e/e6090.html)
[• Yuzawa
One of Japan's leading ski resort towns.](/e/e7690.html)
[• Furukawa
Small town 15 minutes north of Takayama.](/e/e5975.html)
[• Nagano
Former olympic city famous for its temple.](/e/e6000.html)
[• Echigo Tsumari
Idyllic countryside staging modern art.](/e/e7650.html)
[• Nagoya
Japan's third largest economic center.](/e/e2155.html)
[Takato Castle Park
Castle ruins covered by cherry trees.](/e/e6065.html)
[Nozawa Onsen
Old fashioned hot spring and ski resort.](/destinations/nozawa-onsen/)
[Noto Peninsula
Rural peninsula with beautiful coastlines.](/e/e4250.html)
[Norikura
Mountain and highland in the Northern Japan Alps.](/e/e6045.html)
[Obuse
Pleasant town famous for chestnuts and Hokusai.](/e/e6020.html)
[Gero Onsen
Famous hot spring resort south of Takayama.](/e/e5990.html)
[Inuyama
Former castle town north of Nagoya.](/e/e3350.html)
[Karuizawa
Upmarket mountain resort town.](/e/e6030.html)
[Bessho Onsen
Small hot spring town with beautiful temples.](/e/e6070.html)
[Kaga Onsen
A collection of four historic hot spring towns.](/e/e4275.html)
[Shizuoka
Prefectural capital with views of Mount Fuji.](/e/e6350.html)
[Fukui
Prefectural capital nearby Eiheiji Temple.](/e/e6600.html)
[Fujinomiya
City at the southern base of Mount Fuji.](/e/e6365.html)
[Takaoka
Famous for its bronze casting industry.](/e/e7525.html)
[Togura Kamiyamada
Foreigner-friendly onsen town with historic fortress.](/e/e6071.html)
[Toyama
Capital city of Toyama Prefecture.](/e/e7500.html)
[Kofu
Prefectural capital surrounded by vineyards.](/e/e6950.html)
[Lake Hamanako
A seaside lake with hot spring baths.](/e/e6375.html)
[Kakegawa
Small city famous for tea.](/e/e6340.html)
[Myoko
Volcano with multiple ski areas along its slopes](/e/e7642.html)
[Tsuruga
Mid-sized city with a prominent port.](/e/e6650.html)

[Kansai](/list/e1105.html)

[••• Kyoto
For over 1000 years the capital of Japan.](/e/e2158.html)
[••• Mount Koya
Atmospheric temple mountain.](/e/e4900.html)
[••• Nara
Japan's first permanent capital.](/e/e2165.html)
[•• Kinosaki
Pleasant, old-fashioned hot spring resort.](/e/e3525.html)
[•• Osaka
Largest city of the Kinki Region.](/e/e2157.html)
[•• Himeji
Site of Japan's most beautiful feudal castle.](/e/e3500.html)
[•• Ise Shima
Site of Japan's most sacred Shinto shrines.](/e/e4310.html)
[• Takeda Castle Ruins
Hilltop castle ruins sometimes floating on a sea of clouds.](/e/e3592.html)
[• Kumano
Pilgrimage destination on the Kii Peninsula.](/e/e4950.html)
[• Yoshino
Japan's most famous cherry blossom spot.](/e/e4150.html)
[• Uji
City south of Kyoto known for its temple and tea.](/e/e3975.html)
[• Amanohashidate
One of Japan's three most scenic views.](/e/e3990.html)
[• Kobe
Harbor city, recovered from 1995 earthquake.](/e/e2159.html)
[• Omi Hachiman
Former merchant town with pretty canal](/e/e7075.html)
[• Iga Ueno
Former castle town famous for ninja.](/e/e4350.html)
[Miyama
Rural town with lots of thatched roof houses.](/e/e3985.html)
[Asuka and Sakurai
The cradle of Japanese civilization.](/e/e4175.html)
[Hikone
Castle town at the shores of Lake Biwa.](/e/e7000.html)
[Koka
Rural city known as a homeland of the ninja.](/e/e7025.html)

[Chugoku](/list/e1106.html)

[••• Miyajima
Island known for its shrine and large torii gate.](/e/e3401.html)
[•• Hiroshima
Regional capital with a tragic history.](/e/e2160.html)
[• Inujima Island
Small island turned into a modern art site.](/e/e5725.html)
[• Bitchu-Takahashi
Pretty town with original mountaintop castle.](/e/e5775.html)
[• Izumo
Site of Izumo Taisha, Japan's oldest shrine.](/e/e5830.html)
[• Matsue
Former castle town near Izumo Taisha.](/e/e5800.html)
[• Akiyoshidai
Karst plateau with large limestone cave.](/e/e6130.html)
[• Kurashiki
City with a picturesque, historic canal area.](/e/e5750.html)
[• Onomichi
Port town with many slopes and temples.](/e/e3475.html)
[• Hagi
Castle town with preserved samurai district.](/e/e6150.html)
[• Iwakuni
Site of the picturesque Kintai-kyo Bridge.](/e/e6175.html)
[Motonosumi Shrine
Remote shrine along the coast with tunnel of torii gates](/destinations/motonosumi-shrine/)
[Tsuwano
Rural town with nice samurai district.](/e/e5875.html)
[Iwami Ginzan
Former silver mine with world heritage status.](/e/e5850.html)
[Okayama
Famous for one of Japan's three best gardens.](/e/e5700.html)
[Mount Daisen
Tallest mountain in the Chugoku Region.](/e/e8150.html)
[Tottori
Prefectural capital known for its sand dunes.](/e/e8100.html)
[Yamaguchi
Pleasant city at the western end of Honshu.](/e/e6100.html)
[Shimonoseki
City at the westernmost tip of Honshu.](/e/e6140.html)
[Fukuyama
Second largest city in Hiroshima Prefecture.](/e/e3430.html)

[Shikoku](/list/e1107.html)

[•• Naoshima
Small island with a lot of modern art.](/e/e5475.html)
[• Iya Valley
Remote valley in the center of Shikoku.](/e/e7825.html)
[• Kotohira
Site of Shikoku's most popular shrine.](/e/e5450.html)
[• Matsuyama
Largest city of Shikoku with a beautiful castle.](/e/e5500.html)
[• Kochi
Nice city with a southern flair.](/e/e5600.html)
[• Uchiko
Countryside town formerly known for its wax.](/e/e5550.html)
[• Takamatsu
Capital of Kagawa Prefecture.](/e/e5400.html)
[• Ozu
Small city with nice castle, old town and villa.](/e/e5525.html)
[Shodoshima
Island in the Seto Inland Sea known for olives.](/e/e5430.html)
[Naruto
City well known for its whirlpools.](/e/e7850.html)
[Uwajima
Secluded port town with original castle.](/e/e5575.html)
[Tokushima
A city best known for its dance festival.](/e/e7800.html)
[Marugame
Port city in Kagawa, known for its castle.](/e/e5465.html)

[Kyushu](/list/e1108.html)

[••• Yakushima
Subtropical island with ancient cedar forest.](/e/e4650.html)
[•• Kurokawa Onsen
Hot spring town with attractive town and baths.](/e/e4575.html)
[•• Nagasaki
Attractive port city with a moving history.](/e/e2162.html)
[•• Amami Oshima
Subtropical island between Kagoshima and Okinawa.](/e/e4690.html)
[• Takachiho
Mountain town steeped in mythology.](/e/e8050.html)
[• Yutoku Inari Shrine
One of Japan's three best Inari shrines.](/e/e8390.html)
[• Yufuin
Rural yet trendy hot spring town near Beppu.](/e/e4750.html)
[• Kirishima
National Park with volcanic mountain range.](/e/e4625.html)
[• Aso
Active volcano with a huge ancient caldera.](/e/e4550.html)
[• Kagoshima
Southernmost of Kyushu's major cities.](/e/e4600.html)
[• Satsuma Peninsula
Rural peninsula with hot springs in southern Kyushu.](/e/e4675.html)
[• Beppu
Japan's capital city of hot springs.](/e/e4700.html)
[• Fukuoka
Kyushu's largest and most vibrant city.](/e/e2161.html)
[• Kunisaki Peninsula
Interesting, rural peninsula north of Beppu.](/e/e4720.html)
[• Kumamoto
Modern city most famous for its castle.](/e/e4500.html)
[• Dazaifu
Historic town south of Fukuoka.](/e/e4850.html)
[• Udo Shrine
Shrine constructed in a cliff side cave.](/e/e8032.html)
[• Huis Ten Bosch
Amusement Park themed after a Dutch town.](/e/e4477.html)
[• Yoshinogari Park
Best archeological site about the Yayoi Period.](/e/e8325.html)
[Amakusa
Remote islands with a large Christian population.](/e/e4590.html)
[Shimabara Peninsula
Peninsula with active volcano near Nagasaki City.](/e/e4450.html)
[Usuki
Town known for its unique stone Buddhas.](/e/e4740.html)
[Arita and Imari
One of Japan's most famous area for pottery.](/e/e8300.html)
[Kuju Mountains
Volcanic mountain range in Kyushu.](/e/e4775.html)
[Ureshino Onsen
Onsen town with very smooth hot spring waters.](/e/e8380.html)
[Hirado
Former site of the Dutch trading post.](/e/e4490.html)
[Miyazaki
City in southeastern Kyushu.](/e/e8000.html)
[Munakata Taisha
Three shrines and a sacred, off-limit island.](/e/e4840.html)
[Karatsu
Coastal city known for castles and pottery.](/e/e8375.html)
[Kitakyushu
Industrial city in the north of Kyushu.](/e/e4875.html)
[Takeo Onsen
Onsen town with smooth waters and long history.](/e/e8385.html)
[Minamata
From pollution site to environmental model city.](/e/e4525.html)
[Goto Islands
Remote islands off the coast of Kyushu.](/e/e4440.html)
[Tokunoshima
Subtropical island south of Amami-Oshima](/e/e4699.html)

[Okinawa](/list/e1247.html)

[••• Yaeyama Islands
Okinawa's southernmost island group.](/e/e7200.html)
[•• Okinawa Island
Okinawa Prefecture's main island.](/e/e7101.html)
[•• Kerama Islands
Small island group with beautiful beaches.](/e/e7190.html)
[•• Miyako Island
Subtropical island with excellent beaches.](/e/e7300.html)
[• Kume Island
Small island west of Okinawa Honto.](/e/e7175.html)

[## The Basics about Overtourism in Japan

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e623a.html+report+topstory+255+338+0+/news/overtourism.html)

[## Tokyo to Osaka, But Not the Usual Way

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e623a.html+report+jrkintetsu+1+11+0+/ad/jr-kintetsu-pearl-route/)

[## Ultimate Guide to Limited Express Trains

Travel Guide

](/link.html?/e/e623a.html+report+topstory+299+390+0+/e/e2016_limited_express.html)

[## Four spots not to miss on the Boso Peninsula

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e623a.html+report+chiba+5+15+0+/ad/boso-activities/)

[## 2025 Autumn Color Reports

Travel Report

](/link.html?/e/e623a.html+report+topstory+298+389+0+/blog/koyo25/)

[## 14 years after the tsunami

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e623a.html+report+topstory+297+388+0+/blog/recovery/251028.html)

[## A visit to Legoland Resort Nagoya

Traveling with Kids

](/link.html?/e/e623a.html+report+topstory+291+381+0+/blog/traveling-with-kids/250701.html)