---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6906.html
title: Lake Kawaguchiko
description: Visitor guide for Lake Kawaguchiko at the base of Mount Fuji.
keywords: kawaguchiko, lake, kawaguchi, fujigoko, fuji, five, lakes
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2700
char_count: 18584
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:27:30
---

Lake Kawaguchiko (河口湖) is the most easily accessible of the [Fuji Five Lakes](e6900.html) with [train](e2019.html) and direct [bus](e2366.html) connections to [Tokyo](e2164.html). A [hot spring](e6902.html) resort town with various tourist attractions and views of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html) is located around the lake's eastern end, while the northern and western shores are mostly undeveloped.

The best views of Mount Fuji can be enjoyed from the lake's northern shores and are particularly breathtaking during the [cherry blossom](e6920.html) season around mid April and the [autumn colors](e2014.html) around the first half of November. One of the nicest spots for cherry blossoms is the seaside promenade near the [Kawaguchiko Music Forest](e6913.html), while photographers will enjoy the "Momiji Tunnel" for autumn colors, a maple tree-covered road section further west.

Mount Fuji and Lake Kawaguchiko from the Momiji Tunnel

Be warned that even though Kawaguchiko is located right at the base of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html), the mountain is not always visible because of clouds. Visibility tends to be best in the early mornings (usually before 9am) and in the late afternoons, while clouds often obstruct the view during daytime even on days with fair weather, and especially during the hazy summer.

Among the wide range of tourist attractions available around Lake Kawaguchiko are [hot spring baths](e6902.html), [museums](e6927.html), the [Fuji Q amusement park](e6918.html), boat tours and a [ropeway](e6916.html) leading up a small mountain. Kawaguchiko is also a good base for [climbing Mount Fuji](e6901.html), although most people start their ascent from [Fuji Subaru Line 5th Station](e6922.html) halfway up the mountain these days.

Below is a list of some of the tourist attractions around Lake Kawaguchiko:

### Ropeway

* 

  [Mount Fuji Panoramic Ropeway](e6916.html)

  Hours: 8:30 to 17:00 (until 18:00 from July 20 to August 31)  
  Departures every 5-10 minutes  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 1000 yen (round trip), 600 yen (one way)

  The Mount Fuji Panoramic Ropeway ascends to an observation point near the summit of Mount Tenjo, from where Lake Kawaguchiko and [Mount Fuji](e2172.html) can be seen. The ropeway is one end point of the popular day hike to Mount Mitsutoge.

### Museums

* 

  [Kubota Itchiku Museum](e6912.html)

  See the [Kubota Itchiku Museum page](e6912.html) for admission details

  A unique museum that displays kimono created by Kubota Itchiku, who spent his lifetime reviving the lost art of Tsujigahana silk dyeing. The kimono on display depict themes of nature and the cosmos and include his unfinished masterpiece "Symphony of Light", comprised of 80 kimono that together form a picture of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html).
* 

  Kawaguchiko Museum of Art

  Hours: 9:30 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Tuesdays, [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission: 800 yen

  The Kawaguchiko Museum of Art houses temporary exhibitions of Japanese and foreign modern artists as well as a small permanent collection of paintings and photographs featuring [Mount Fuji](e2172.html).
* 

  [Kawaguchiko Music Forest](e6913.html)

  See the [Kawaguchiko Music Forest page](e6913.html) for admission details

  More theme park than museum, the Kawaguchiko Music Forest is devoted to automatic musical instruments, such as music boxes and mechanical organs. The beautifully designed grounds with European styled gardens have nice views of Mount Fuji and are operated by the Ukai Group which also runs the [Glass Forest](e5215.html) in [Hakone](e5200.html).
* 

  Yamanashi Gem Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:30 (Mar to Oct), 9:30 to 17:00 (Nov to Feb)  
  Admission ends 30 minutes before closing.  
  Closed: Wednesdays (except [national holidays](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission: 600 yen

  The Yamanashi Gem Museum displays gems, precious stones and large quartz crystals collected from Japan and around the world. Half of the museum is a store where you can purchase jewelry and other trinkets made with the same types of gems on display.
* 

  Herb Hall

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:45  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free

  The Herb Hall is basically a store with a herb garden and greenhouse where you can view and purchase herbs, tea and dried flowers. Behind the Herb Hall stands the Perfume Hall where you can buy perfumes, aroma oils and soaps.

### Hot spring baths

* 

  Hotel Mifujien

  Daytime Hours: 13:00 to 21:00 (entry until 20:00)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Daytime admission: 1200 yen

  This aging hotel is the only one of the [ryokan](e2029.html) and hotels along Lake Kawaguchiko's northeastern shore which opens its baths to non-staying guests during the day. Its gender separated bathing facilities have seen better days, but the views of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html) are quite nice.
* 

  Kaiun no Yu

  Daytime Hours: Inquire with the operator  
  Closed: Irregular closures for maintenance  
  Daytime admission: 1000 yen for 2 hours

  Kaiun no Yu is part of the Royal Hotel Kawaguchiko along the lake's southern shore. The baths are open to non staying guests, however, they are rather average and do not have views of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html).

Kawaguchiko Station is the terminal station of the Fujikyu Railway from Otsuki. The bus terminal for [local buses](e2015.html) and [highway buses](e2366.html) to/from [Tokyo](e2164.html), [Kofu](e6950.html), Gotemba and other destinations is located just in front of the station.

From Kawaguchiko Station, the [Omni Bus](e6905.html) lines provide tourists with local transportation around Lake Kawaguchiko and neighboring [Lake Saiko](e6907.html): the Red Line (or Kawaguchiko Line) operates along Lake Kawaguchi's eastern and northern shores, while the Green Line (or Saiko Line) operates along Lake Kawaguchiko's southern shore before continuing to [Lake Saiko](e6907.html).

[How to get to and around the Fuji Five Lakes](e6905.html)