---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6076.html
title: Magome Town
description: Visitor guide for Magome, a Nakasendo post town in the Kiso Valley.
keywords: magome, post, town, kiso, valley
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 504
char_count: 3709
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:10:51
---

Magome (馬籠) is a former [post town](e2422.html) in the [Kiso Valley](e6075.html), which served travelers of the [Nakasendo](e6078.html), a major route that connected [Tokyo](e2164.html) with [Kyoto](e2158.html) during the [feudal ages](e2128.html).

The town has been beautifully restored with a broad stone walkway lined with wooden buildings and carefully tended foliage. Magome's embellished preservation contrasts with the rugged authenticity of neighboring [Tsumago](e6077.html). The two towns are connected by the [Magome-Tsumago Trail](e6078.html), a route which was part of the Nakasendo.

Visitors along the town's main street

While exploring Magome, visitors will surely come across the name Shimazaki Toson. Born in Magome in 1872, Toson is a highly regarded figure in [Japanese literature](e2110.html). In his novel Yoakemae (Before the Dawn), he famously describes life in the area around the years of the [Meiji Restoration](e2130.html). Its often quoted first line reads "The whole of the Kisoji lies in the mountains".

* 

  Honjin/Toson Memorial Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (until 16:00 from December to March)  
  Closed: Wednesdays from December to February  
  Admission: 500 yen

  The Honjin was the principal inn of a post town. Toson's father was the last person to oversee Magome's Honjin, and Toson himself was born there. Today, it serves as a memorial to the artist.
* 

  Wakihonjin Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: irregular closures  
  Admission: 300 yen

  The Wakihonjin was the secondary inn of a post town. This small museum is located where Magome's former Wakihonjin once stood. Inside there are displays pertaining to Magome's history as a Nakasendo post town.
* 

  Tsuchimaya Shiryokan

  Hours: 9:00 to 18:00  
  Closed: irregular closures in winter  
  Admission: 200 yen

  On the second floor, above a souvenir shop and restaurant, this small museum also focuses on Toson and has on display items of his family and the early Meiji Period.
* 

  Shimizuya Shiryokan

  Hours: 8:00 to 17:00 (8:30 to 16:30 from December to March)  
  Closed: irregular closures  
  Admission: 300 yen

  A small museum that features hanging scrolls, [pottery](e2329.html), clothing, and other goods that articles that belonged to residents of Magome.

Magome is a 30 minute [bus](e2015.html) ride from JR Nakatsugawa Station (800 yen one way), the closest train station. Buses depart roughly once an hour ([see timetable](/bus/kiso.html)).

Magome can also be reached in about a 20 minute walk from the Magome [highway bus](e2366.html) stop, which is located in the Misaka parking area along the [Chuo Expressway](e2354.html).

Nearby [Tsumago](e6077.html) can be reached from Magome by infrequent direct [buses](e2015.html) ([see timetable](/bus/kiso.html)) or by following the [Magome-Tsumago Hiking Trail](e6078.html).

[How to get to and around the Kiso Valley](e6079.html)