---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6804.html
title: Iozan (Sulfur Mountain)
description: Visitor guide for Iozan - or Sulfur Mountain - in Hokkaido's Akan Mashu National Park.
keywords: akan, iozan, sulfur, mountain, kawayu
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 404
char_count: 2827
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:22:23
---

Iozan (硫黄山, Iōzan, lit. "Sulfur Mountain") is an active [volcano](e2327.html) in the vicinity of [Kawayu Onsen](e6806.html). Its yellow, sulfurous vents can be viewed from a close proximity as visitors are free to walk around the steaming, smoking area. Eggs, cooked by the natural heat of the mountain, are usually on sale near the vents. Further refreshments are available from the Iozan Visitor Center.

A few trails offer pleasant walking around the mountain. The longest path (2.5 kilometers) leads to the visitor center of nearby [Kawayu Onsen](e6806.html). This flat route passes through the shrub and low brush area around Iozan before moving into forest area in Kawayu Onsen.

Iozan stands outside of the hot spring resort of [Kawayu Onsen](e6806.html). The area with the volcanic activity, is less than five minutes from the town center by [car](e2024.html). On foot, you can get there in about 45 minutes from the town center or in about 20 minutes from Kawayu Onsen Station.

During some weeks in winter (January 24 to March 1, 2026) and summer (July 26 to August 31, 2025), infrequent [buses](e2015.html) between [Lake Mashu](e6802.html), Kawayu Station, Kawayu Onsen and [Lake Kussharo](e6803.html) make a stop at Mount Iozan. During the rest of the year, there is no bus service.

There is a paid parking lot (500 yen) at Iozan. Note that the parking ticket also allows for parking at the observation deck number 1 at [Lake Mashu](e6802.html).

[How to get to and around Akan Mashu National Park](e6805.html)