---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6315.html
title: Mount Omuro (Omuroyama)
description: Visitor guide for Mount Omuro, a small volcano in Ito on the Izu Peninsula.
keywords: mount, omuro, omuroyama, volcano, ito, izu, peninsula, kogen
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1750
char_count: 11159
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:16:48
---

Mount Omuro (大室山, Ōmuroyama) is a distinctly shaped [volcanic](e2327.html) cone near the eastern coast of the [Izu Peninsula](e6310.html), south of central [Ito City](e6307.html). Formed like a giant, inverted [rice](e2043.html) bowl, it has a beautiful silhouette that can be seen from most places in the Izu Kogen area. Mount Omuro is about 580 meters high and has a crater with a diameter of about 300 meters which takes about 15 to 30 minutes to circle on foot.

Visitors must take a chair lift up the mountain (walking up is prohibited for preservation reasons) in order to walk around the crater. The top of the mountain offers 360 degree panoramic views that include [Mount Fuji](e2172.html) and [Oshima Island](e8252.html) when visibility is good. More ambitious visitors can try their hand at archery in the bottom of the crater or paragliding down the side of the mountain. The [Izu Shaboten Zoo](e6309.html) is located near the base of Mount Omuro.

Walking around the crater

Take a [bus](e2015.html) bound for Shaboten Koen (シャボテン公園) from Ito Station (about 40 minutes, 880 yen one way, 2 buses/hour) or Izu Kogen Station (about 20 minutes, 430 yen one way, every 1-2 hours) and get off at the final stop. The chair lift to the top of Mount Omuro departs from just next to the bus stop.

Tokai Bus offers two different [discount bus passes for Ito](e6307.html#section_get_there): a 1-day pass for 1250 yen that covers Izu Kogen and the [Jogasaki Coast](e6308.html), and a 2-day pass for 1800 yen that additionally includes [central Ito](e6307.html). The trip to Mount Omuro from Izu Kogen Station is fully covered by both passes, but the trip from Ito Station is only covered by the 2-day pass. The passes can be purchased at Izu Kogen Station and Ito Station, respectively.

[How to get to and around Ito](e6307.html#section_get_there)
  
[How to get to and around the Izu Peninsula](e6305.html)