---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6828.html
title: Biei Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Biei, a town in a beautiful, hilly surrounding.
keywords: biei, travel, guide, tourist, sightseeing, information, visitor
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2131
char_count: 13789
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:05:17
---

Biei (美瑛) is a small town surrounded by a picturesque landscape of gently rolling hills and vast fields. A pleasant way to enjoy the charm of Biei is by [cycling](e2210.html) or [driving](e2024.html) through the hills and visiting some of the [flower](e2423.html) fields and famous trees. The area northwest of the town center is named "Patchwork Road" and the area south of the town center "Panorama Road".

### Patchwork Road

Named after the appearance of its fields seen from above, the Patchwork Road (パッチワークの路, Patchwork no Michi) is the scenic area northwest of Biei's town center. Note that it refers to an area rather than a single road. It offers beautiful rural landscapes around the year, especially during the green and colorful summer and autumn months and during winter when everything is covered under a deep layer of snow.

Parents and Child Tree

Over the years, the area's beauty has attracted the attention of marketing professionals, and some trees were used in commercials or for package label designs. Among these **famous trees** are a row of larch trees on the Mild Seven Hill (from a cigarette commercial), a poplar named Ken and Mary Tree (from a car commercial) and the Seven Star Tree (which appeared on cigarette packages). A group of oak trees is known as the Parents and Child Tree.

Other sites of interest in the Patchwork Road area are the **Hokusei Hill Observatory**, a pyramid structure that offers nice views over the fields of Biei and the **Zerubu Hill**, a flower park which can be explored not only on foot but also by various types of carts.

### Panorama Road

Like the Patchwork Road, the Panorama Road (パノラマロード) is an area rather than a single road. It offers much of the same rural and scenic beauty as the Patchwork Road and is ideal for exploration by [car](e2024.html) or [bicycle](e2210.html), although some people will prefer electrically powered bicycles due to the hilly terrain.

Among the area's highlights is **Shikisai Hill**, a spacious flower park with various [flower](e2423.html) fields (including lavender), which can be viewed by walking along the trails, by renting carts or by taking a ride on tractor-pulled wagons. In winter, snow mobiles are available. Another, smaller flower park is **Kanno Farm**, located along the main road between Biei and [Furano](e6825.html).

Also worth a visit is the **Takushinkan**, an exhibition hall with beautiful landscape photography by renowned photographer Maeda Shinzo and his eldest son Akira. The exhibition displays landscape photographs from across Japan with an emphasis on photos from Biei.

Shikisai Hill

Biei is located between [Asahikawa](e6890.html) and [Furano](e6825.html), about a 30-40 minutes [car](e2024.html) or [train](e2019.html) ride from either city. The train ride cost 680 yen from Asahikawa and 800 yen from Furano. There is about one train per hour.

Biei is also located close to Asahikawa Airport and can be reached from there directly by the Lavender-go [bus](e2015.html) (15 minutes, 380 yen, one bus every 1-2 hours), which connects Asahikawa Station with Asahikawa Airport, Biei and [Furano](e6825.html).

Rental [bicycles](e2210.html) (including electrically powered ones) are available from multiple stores in central Biei. The typical rate is 200 yen per hour for a regular bicycle and 600 yen per hour for an electrical one.

Sightseeing buses waiting in front of Biei Station

During summer, the sights of Biei are visited by various [sightseeing buses](e6829.html) starting from Furano, Biei and Asahikawa stations.

[How to get to and around Furano and Biei](e6829.html)