---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6079.html
title: Tokyo to Kiso Valley\: How to get to and around Kiso Valley
description: How to get into and around the Kiso Valley.
keywords: kiso, valley, tsumago, magome, access, directions, get there, train, bus
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 766
char_count: 5341
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:10:48
---

From/To:

TokyoOsakaKyotoNagoyaTakayama

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)(except bus)

Take the [JR Tokaido Shinkansen](e2018.html) from [Tokyo](e2164.html) to [Nagoya](e2155.html) (100-110 minutes) and transfer to the JR Shinano [limited express](e2016.html) train for access into the [Kiso Valley](e6075.html). The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) covers the entire train journey if using Hikari trains along the [Tokaido Shinkansen](e2018.html), but a supplement fee is required on Nozomi trains.

To access [Magome](e6076.html), take the Shinano limited express from Nagoya to Nakatsugawa Station (50 minutes). The entire journey from Tokyo to Nakatsugawa takes about three hours and costs around 13,000 yen one way. From Nakatsugawa, Magome can be reached in a 30 minute [bus](e2015.html) ride (570 yen one way, not covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), see [timetable](/bus/kiso.html)).

To access [Tsumago](e6077.html), get off at Nagiso Station. Some limited express trains stop at Nagiso Station, but most do not, in which case you should transfer to a local train at Nakatsugawa Station. The entire journey from Tokyo to Nagiso takes about three hours and costs around 13,000 yen one way. From Nagiso, Tsumago can be reached in a short [taxi](e2021.html) (about 2000 yen one way) or [bus](e2015.html) ride (300 yen one way, not covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), see [timetable](/bus/kiso.html)).

To directly access [Narai](e6080.html) from Tokyo, it is recommended to travel by limited express train via Shiojiri (see below).

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)(except bus)

Take the JR Azusa [limited express](e2016.html) train from [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s Shinjuku Station to Shiojiri Station south of [Matsumoto](e6050.html) (2.5 hours) and transfer to a local or limited express train into the [Kiso Valley](e6075.html). The train journey is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html).

To access [Narai](e6080.html), take a local train from Shiojiri Station to Narai Station (20 minutes). The entire one way trip from Shinjuku to Narai takes about three hours and costs around 7,000 yen.

To access [Tsumago](e6077.html), take the JR Shinano limited express train from Shiojiri to Nagiso Station (50 minutes). Note that many limited express trains do not stop at Nagiso, in which case you should transfer to a local train at Kiso-Fukushima Station or use a local train from Shiojiri. The entire journey from Tokyo to Nagiso by limited express trains takes about four hours and costs around 9,000 yen one way. From Nagiso, Tsumago can be reached in a short [taxi](e2021.html) (about 2000 yen one way) or [bus](e2015.html) ride (300 yen one way, not covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), see [timetable](/bus/kiso.html)).

To access [Magome](e6076.html), take the JR Shinano limited express train from Shiojiri to Nakatsugawa Station (60 minutes). The entire journey from Tokyo to Nakatsugawa via Shiojiri takes about four hours and costs around 9,500 yen one way. From Nakatsugawa, Magome can be reached in a 30 minute [bus](e2015.html) ride (570 yen one way, not covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), see [timetable](/bus/kiso.html)).

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)(except bus)

Daytime [highway buses](e2366.html) between [Shinjuku](e3011.html) and [Nagoya](e2155.html) stop at the Magome bus stop, which is located in the Misaka parking area along the [Chuo Expressway](e2354.html). From the bus stop, [Magome](e6076.html) can be reached in about a 20 minute walk. The one way journey between Shinjuku and Magome takes about 4.5 hours and costs 4,900 and 7.700 yen depending on the day of travel. Online reservations can be made via [Willer](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/gifu/all/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184).

[Book Now](https://willer-travel.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/gifu/all/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184)

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

All the post towns of the [Kiso Valley](e6075.html) are located within easy reach of the JR Chuo Line, and can be visited relatively conveniently by [public transportation](e627.html). Please refer to each post town's information page for more details on access and orientation:

* [Magome](e6076.html)* [Tsumago](e6077.html)* [Narai](e6080.html)

[Magome](e6076.html) and [Tsumago](e6077.html) are located less than ten kilometers from each other and are the most popular destinations in the [Kiso Valley](e6075.html). A popular [hiking trail](e6078.html), which follows the former Nakasendo route, connects the two towns. Alternatively, they are connected with each other by infrequent direct [buses](e2015.html) ([see timetable](/bus/kiso.html)).

A visit to the Kiso Valley is possible as a side trip from [Nagoya](e2155.html) or even [Kyoto](e2158.html). It can also be visited along a journey between [Tokyo](e2164.html) and Kyoto/Osaka as an alternative to taking the [Tokaido Shinkansen](e2018.html). While the main attractions of the Kiso Valley can be seen in a single day, we recommend to include an overnight stay at one of the post towns' [minshuku](e2026.html) or [ryokan](e2029.html).