---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6852.html
title: Shiretoko Sightseeing Boat Cruises
description: Visitor guide for the sightseeing boat cruises along the Shiretoko Peninsula.
keywords: sightseeing, boat, cruises, cruise, ship, shiretoko, peninsula
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 447
char_count: 3235
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:15:13
---

From late April to late October, sightseeing boat cruises are operated along the rugged western coast of the [Shiretoko Peninsula](e6850.html). Tours depart from [Utoro](e6857.html) and travel either halfway or the full way up to Cape Shiretoko (Shiretoko Misaki) at the tip of the peninsula. It is the easiest way to view the peninsula's dramatic coastline with its tall cliffs and waterfalls, otherwise inaccessible to the regular tourist.

Another highlight of the cruises is the variety of wildlife that can be seen from the boats, especially brown bears which are often spotted on the rocky beaches with their cubs. Deer and foxes may also be seen along the shore, while sea animals such as dolphins, whales, sea lions and different types of sea birds might be seen from the boats.

Multiple companies offer cruises with differently sized boats. The **large Aurora ships** offer open observation decks in addition to indoor seating and snack bars. Long cruises to the tip of the peninsula (3 hour 45 minutes, 9,800 yen, June to mid October) and shorter cruises as far as the Kamuiwakka Falls and Mount Io (90 minute, 4,500 yen, late April to late October) are offered. During the winter months the Aurora ships operate [drift ice](e6868.html) cruises from [Abashiri](e6865.html).

A few other companies operate cruises on **smaller boats** which are able to travel closer to the shore. They typically offer two routes: long cruises to the tip of the peninsula (3 hours, 13,000 yen, June to September) and bear watching cruises (2 hours, 8,000 yen, late April to October). Some companies also provide chartered cruises.

Sightseeing boat tours depart from [Utoro](e6857.html). The pier is located behind Oronko Rock, the huge rock next to the town center.

[How to get to and around Shiretoko National Park](e6854.html)