---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6931.html
title: Fujiten Snow Resort
description: Visitor guide for the Fujiten Snow Resort, one of two snow resorts on Mount Fuji.
keywords: fujiten, ski, resort, mount, fuji, snow, snowboard
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2183
char_count: 14587
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:45:52
---

Fujiten Snow Resort is a small [ski resort](e2262_resort.html) along the northern base of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html) in the [Fuji Five Lakes](e6900.html) region. Fujiten is the larger of two ski resorts on Mount Fuji and offers good facilities and views of the mountain. The other one is the [Snow Town Yeti](e6932.html) on the mountain's southern base.

Fujiten has a respectable selection of runs with something to suit every ability. Its two 1300 meter long main courses are suitable for beginners, while a 500 meter long family slope is reserved for beginning skiers. The resort also features steeper, advanced courses and a terrain park with several large jumps, rails and boxes that attract talented [skiers and snowboarders](e2262.html). Snow canons provide the resort with man-made snow when nature does not cooperate, which is not an uncommon occurrence.

Fujiten also has a large kids park where children can sled, learn to ski or snowboard, or just play in the snow. Admission to the kids park costs 1000 yen per person, but is free for holders of full-day lift passes. Some of the activities require rentals or separate fees to participate in.

Kids Park

Fujiten Snow Resort

Fujiten is a small snow resort along the base of Mount Fuji. Although small, the resort has a good selection of slopes and includes a large kids snow park.

Season\*

**Mid December to early April**

Lifts

4 lifts

Tickets

Full day
5000 yen (6500 yen on weekends)

Half day
4500 yen (6000 yen on weekends)

Nighter
3000 yen (weekends and holidays only)

Access

Car
20 minutes from Kawaguchiko Station

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

A [taxi](e2021.html) ride from Kawaguchiko Station costs about 6,000 yen one way. During much of the skiing season (December 26, 2025 to March 1, 2026), the [Fujiten Shuttle Bus](https://www.fujikanko-travel.jp/fujiten_bus/) operates twice per day between Kawaguchi Station and the resort for 4,000 yen for a round trip. Advance reservations are required, but tickets can also be purchased on the day if available.

[How to get to and around the Fuji Five Lakes](e6905.html)