---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6716.html
title: Kiroro Ski Resort Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for the Kiroro Ski Resort in Hokkaido, Japan.
keywords: kiroro, ski, resort, snow, snowboard, powder
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 504
char_count: 3597
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:47:07
---

Kiroro Ski Resort (キロロスキー場, Kiroro Skījō) is a large [snow resort](e2262.html) located just outside of [Otaru](e6700.html) and not far from [Sapporo](e2163.html) and [Niseko](e6720.html). Its location near the Sea of Japan provides the resort with huge quantities of light powder snow, even by [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html)'s voluminous standards.

Kiroro features a variety of terrain among its over twenty courses with difficulties evenly spread between beginner, intermediate and advanced. In addition to long, groomed and ungroomed runs, the resort also has several in-bounds, forested off-piste areas which offer access to the resort's deepest snow. Several gates offer access to side and backcountry for groups that submit climbing plans at the main lodge.

In-bounds off-piste areas through trees are well-marked

The main complex at the base of the resort is quite developed and includes several restaurants, shops and [onsen](e2292.html). Here, families can sign up for activities ranging from snowmobile rides to snow tubing, as well as a children's snow park. While the resort is not located in a town or village, the resort offers self-contained entertainment and [accommodation](e2025.html) options at the [Yu Kiroro](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/yu-kiroro.html?aid=355588) luxury residences and two Club Med resorts.

Kiroro Ski Resort

A large upscale ski resort not far from Otaru, Sapporo and Niseko, blessed with some of Hokkaido's largest snowfall volumes. Tons of powder snow, good lift infrastructure, varied on-and-off-piste terrain, and good side/backcountry access make for a worthwhile visit for a couple days. Also lots of activities available for families. Lift ticket prices are lowered during the shoulder seasons.

Season\*

**Late November to early May**  
(November 29, 2025 to May 6, 2026)

Lifts

10 lifts

Tickets

Full day
8800 yen

Half day
7400 yen

Nighter
2900 yen

Access

Bus
90 minutes by bus to/from central Sapporo; 50 minutes to/from central Otaru.

Car
About 70 minutes by car to/from central Sapporo; about 45 minutes to/from central Otaru.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

### From Sapporo

Hokkaido Resort Liner connects Kiroro Ski Resort by [bus](e2015.html) with central [Sapporo](e2163.html) from mid December until early April. The one way trip costs 2500 yen one way and takes 90-150 minutes from Sapporo depending on where you get on. Reservations are required.

Alternatively, the resort can be reached by [car](e2024.html) from central Sapporo in about 70 minutes. Winter driving skills are required.

### From Otaru

Buses connect central Otaru and Kiroro Ski Resort during the ski season until early April. The trip takes about one hour and costs 2000 yen one way. Reservations are recommended.

Alternatively, the resort can also be reached by [car](e2024.html) from central Otaru in about 45 minutes. Winter driving skills are required.