---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6782.html
title: Tokachidake Onsen
description: Visitor guide for Tokachidake Onsen, a small hot spring at the base of Mount Tokachidake in Hokkaido's Daisetsuzan National Park.
keywords: tokachidake, onsen, daisetsuzan, hot, spring, springs, spa
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 353
char_count: 2708
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:05:14
---

View onto Tokachidake from the outdoor bath of the Ryounkaku

Tokachidake Onsen (十勝岳温泉) is a collection of four [hot spring](e2292.html) [ryokan](e2029.html) at 1280 meters above sea level, more than halfway up the slopes of Mount Tokachidake, an active [volcano](e2327.html) in [Daisetsuzan National Park](e6775.html). It also serves as a trailhead for [hiking](e2427_where.html) trips into the national park.

Among the four inns, the simple **Ryounkaku** at the very end of the mountain road features gender-segregated outdoor [baths](e2292.html) with deeply brownish water and spectacular views onto the Tokachidake mountains. The best time for a visit is in late September and early October when the [autumn colors](e2014.html) are usually at their best and during the winter months when the landscape is particularly breathtaking. The baths are also open to non-staying guests.

At the parking lot at the end of the road is the trailhead for **hiking excursions**. In less than an hour, you can reach the Ansei Crater, a volcanically active valley that should be explored with caution. The ascent to the peak of Tokachidake takes about four hours (one way). From there, well equipped hikers can continue multi-day trekking tours deeper into the [national park](e6775.html).

Scenery in the Ansei Crater

Around the year, there are three [bus](e2015.html) round trips per day between JR Kamifurano Station and Tokachidake Onsen (45 minutes, 500 yen one way). [Driving](e2024.html) from central [Furano](e6825.html) to Tokachidake Onsen takes about one hour.

[How to get to and around Daisetsuzan National Park](e6779.html)