---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6954.html
title: Katsunuma Wineries
description: Visitor guide for the wineries around Kofu.
keywords: katsunuma, yamanashi, wine, winery, wineries, grape, grapes, vinyard, vinyards, kofu, japan
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 803
char_count: 5676
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:14:43
---

The town of Katsunuma (勝沼) in the [Kofu](e6950.html) basin is an important center of Japanese wine making, being the birthplace of the Japanese [wine](e2037.html) industry. Today the area remains the top producer of wines that are made using only Japanese [grapes](e2347.html), and it is a popular tourist destination with a large concentration of wineries at which visitors can buy, taste and learn about many aspects of Japanese wine.

The Kofu basin has a long history of grape cultivation. The Koshu grape that is used to produce much of the region's wine is thought to have arrived in Japan over a thousand years ago. Wine making began in the [19th century](e2130.html), led by individuals who brought back skills learned in Europe. With high amounts of sunshine, the Kofu basin is well suited to vinicluture relative to others areas in Japan, and now there are over 70 wineries in Katsunuma and the surrounding region.

Inside one of the wineries' wine-tasting areas

The region's wineries range widely in what they offer visitors. Many operate shops that sell the winery's products and offer [wine](e2037.html) tasting, while a few also conduct tours of the winery or offer workshops about the different aspects of wine. Below is a list of some of the area's more notable wineries and wine-related attractions:

* 

  Chateau Mercian

  Hours: 9:30 to 16:30
    
  Tours: 3000 yen (90 minutes)
    
  Closed: [New Year](e2276.html) holidays
    
  Access: 45 minute walk or 5 minute [taxi](e2021.html) ride from Katsunumabudokyo Station

  Chateau Mercian is one of the oldest wineries in Japan. Tours of the winery with wine tastings are held in [Japanese](e621.html) (advance reservations required). In addition, there is an atmospheric museum that recounts the history of the company and Japanese wine making, and a cafe selling [wine](e2037.html), food and soft drinks.
* 

  Miyakoen

  Hours: 9:00 to 16:30 (entry until 16:00)
    
  Admission: 200 yen
    
  Closed: Tuesdays (or next day if Tuesday is a [holiday](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html) holidays
    
  Access: Located next to the Chateau Mercian (see above)

  Miyakoen is the winery that was established by one of the men who introduced wine making to Japan. Visitors can enter the main building which used to serve as a residence but has now been turned into a museum about wine making.
* 

  Budo no Oka

  Wine cellar hours: 9:00 to 17:30 (entry until 17:00)
    
  Wine cellar: 1800 yen
    
  Closed: No closing days
    
  Access: 20-30 minute walk or short [taxi](e2021.html) ride from Katsunumabudokyo Station

  Located on a hill overlooking the Kofu plain, this complex is not a winery, but it offers a wine cellar in which, for a fee, visitors can enter and sample around 200 varieties of [wine](e2037.html). In addition, the complex offers a shop, restaurant, hotel and [onsen](e2292.html).
* 

  L'Orient

  Hours: 9:00 to 16:30
    
  Winery tours: from 550 yen
    
  Closed: No closing days
    
  Access: 1 hour walk or 10 minute [taxi](e2021.html) ride from Katsunumabudokyo Station

  A winery with a wide variety of offerings, including various tours of the winery, wine tasting and workshops. There is also a shop where visitors can buy [wine](e2037.html).
* 

  Haramo

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00
    
  Closed: No closing days
    
  Access: 20-30 min walk or 5 min [taxi](e2021.html) ride from Katsunumabudokyo Station

  A quaint winery in picturesque surroundings with a wine shop where visitors can taste and buy [wine](e2037.html).

**Important note:** Japan enforces a strict zero-tolerance drinking and driving policy.

The Katsunuma area is located on the eastern edge of the Kofu Plain, 20-25 minutes by [train](e2016.html) from Kofu Station. The area is served by two stations along the frequently operating JR Chuo Line: Enzan Station (330 yen one way from Kofu) and Katsunumabudokyo Station (420 yen from Kofu). Unfortunately, most wineries are not located within easy walking distance of the stations, and [buses](e2015.html) operate only very infrequently.

There are two **loop bus lines** that connect the two train stations with selected wineries and attractions in the area, but they operate only about once every 3 hours, making them close to impractical for getting around. Alternatively, most wineries are located within 15 minutes and 2000 yen by [taxi](e2021.html) from Katsunumabudokyo Station.

[Rental cars](e2024.html) are available from outlets around Kofu Station; however, a dedicated driver will be required because of Japan's strict drink and driving laws.

[How to get to and around Kofu](e6953.html)