---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6402.html
title: How to get to and around Narita\: Access, Transportation and Orientation
description: How to get to and around Narita.
keywords: narita, orientation, access, transportation, how, to, get, around, directions, keisei, jr, trains, buses
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1940
char_count: 13151
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:17:36
---

### How to travel between Tokyo and Narita

This section explains how to travel between Tokyo and the [city of Narita](e6400.html), as opposed to Narita Airport. For details on airport access, please visit our [Narita Airport](e2027.html) page.

#### By Japan Railways (JR)

Hourly, direct [rapid trains](e2016.html) run along the JR Sobu Line between Tokyo Station and [Narita Airport](e2027.html) in each direction, stopping at Narita Station along the way. The one way trip from Tokyo Station to Narita Station takes 70 minutes and costs 1170 yen. Seat reservations are not possible.

The JR [Narita Express](e2027.html) (NEX) also runs between [Tokyo](e2164.html) and [Narita Airport](e2027.html), however, except for some early morning and evening services, they do not stop at Narita Station. Those that do, take 60 minutes and cost around 3000 yen one way. Seat reservations are mandatory.

#### By Keisei Railway

The Keisei Main Line connects [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s Keisei [Ueno](e3019.html) Station and Nippori Station on the [Yamanote Line](e2370.html) with Keisei Narita Station before continuing to [Narita Airport](e2027.html). The one way ride from Ueno to Narita Station takes around 70 minutes and costs 860 yen. One transfer of trains may be required along the way. Seat reservations are not possible.

### How to travel between Narita and the airport

#### By train

It takes ten minutes to travel between Narita Station and [Narita Airport](e2027.html) by JR (1-2 trains/hour, 200 or 240 yen one way depending on the terminal) or Keisei (3 trains/hour, 280 yen).

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](/e/e2196.html).

The **airport** is located about ten kilometers outside of central [Narita City](e6400.html). JR and Keisei, the two [railway](e2019.html) companies that serve the airport, each have a station in the city center, a 1-2 minute walk from each other: **JR Narita Station** and **Keisei Narita Station**.

Many hotels around [Narita Airport](e2027.html) offer their guests **complimentary shuttle buses** to/from the airport and to/from Narita Station in the city center. Furthermore, there are some paid buses that connect the hotels with major sightseeing spots, such as the [Aeon shopping mall](e6405.html) and [Naritasan Temple](e6401.html).

Narita also has a network of **regular city bus lines**, which is operated mainly by Chiba Kotsu. The network is centered around Keisei and JR Narita stations and provides connections to some of the sightseeing spots, including [Boso no Mura](e6403.html) and the [Aeon shopping mall](e6405.html).

More outlying attractions, such as [Sawara](e6406.html), [Katori Shrine](e6408.html) and the [National Museum of Japanese History](e6407.html) can be accessed by train. Alternatively, visitors could consider [renting a car](e2024.html) for a day of sightseeing around the airport. All major car rental companies have outlets at [Narita Airport](e2027.html).