---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6845.html
title: Tomamu Ski Resort Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for the Tomamu Ski Resort in Hokkaido.
keywords: tomamu, hokkaido, ski, resort, snow, snowboard, skiing
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 524
char_count: 3846
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 11:39:35
---

Tomamu (トマム) is a modern, high-class [ski resort](e2262_resort.html) in central [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html), about 90 minutes by train south of [Sapporo](e2163.html). The resort covers two mountains and has a large selection of trails to choose from. In addition to beginner slopes and groomed trails, Tomamu has courses aimed at enthusiast skiers including expert runs, a well maintained terrain park, and sanctioned tree skiing within resort boundaries.

Tomamu also offers a host of other activities such as snowmobiling, snow rafting, snowshoeing and curling. Lessons are available for beginner skiers and snowboarders, and there is a kid's snow park to entertain smaller [children](e2460.html) with ski lessons, a snow playground and sledding.

Tomamu is an attractive destination for a multi-day ski trip. It offers multiple accommodation options, including skyscraper hotels by Hoshino Resort and the all-inclusive Club Med Tomamu. The resort also offers a large indoor wave pool, [hot spring](e2292.html) facilities, spa services and several restaurants. Free shuttle buses provide transportation between the resort's different areas.

In the evenings, pay a visit to Tomamu's illuminated **Ice Village** (December 10, 2025 to March 14, 2026), a collection of domes constructed entirely of snow and ice. The domes house a bar, shop, wedding chapel, hotel (with one room), ramen restaurant and more. There is also an ice skate rink. The village is free to enter for staying resort guests but costs a small admission fee (600 yen) for non-staying visitors.

Ice village

Tomamu Ski Resort

Tomamu is a modern, but somewhat isolated ski resort in central Hokkaido. It has a big resort feel with lots of attractions for overnight guests. Lift ticket prices are lowered if purchased online and during the shoulder seasons.

Season\*

**Early December to early April**  
(December 1, 2025 to April 5, 2026)

Lifts

6 lifts

Tickets

Full day
8000 yen

Half day
7000 yen

Access

Bus/Train
90-100 minutes by hourly limited express trains from Sapporo.

Car
4 kilometers west of Tomamu IC.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

### By train

JR [limited express](e2016.html#category) trains run every 2-3 hours between [Sapporo](e2163.html) and Tomamu stations. The one way trip takes around 100 minutes, costs 5,880 yen and is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and [Hokkaido Rail Pass](e2361_01.html). Seat reservations are mandatory. When coming from [Shin-Chitose Airport](e2435.html), a transfer of trains is required at Minami-Chitose Station. Free shuttle buses operate between the Tomamu Station and the ski resort.

### By bus

During the ski season, [ski buses](e2366.html) connect Tomamu directly with [Sapporo](e2163.html)'s [Shin-Chitose Airport](e2435.html) (120 minutes, 6000 yen one way, reservations required, departures every 2 hours). Less frequent buses connect Tomamu to central [Sapporo](e2163.html), [Niseko](e6720.html), [Rusutsu](e6715.html), [Furano](e6830.html) and [Asahikawa](e6890.html).