---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6305.html
title: Tokyo to Izu Peninsula\: How to get to and around Izu Peninsula
description: How to get to and around the Izu Peninsula.
keywords: izu, hanto, peninsula, shimoda, atami, shuzenji, ito, access, directions, orientation, transportation, trains, buses, shinkansen
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2460
char_count: 16067
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:16:58
---

From/To:

TokyoOsakaKyoto

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

The [JR Tokaido Shinkansen](e2018_tokaido.html) provides direct connections from [Tokyo](e2164.html) to [Atami](e6317.html) (40-50 minutes, around 4000 yen one way) and Mishima (45-60 minutes, around 4500 yen one way) at the entrance to the [Izu Peninsula](e6310.html). The journey is covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), but not by the [JR Tokyo Wide Pass](e2361_06.html), [JR East Nagano Niigata Area Pass](e2361_nagano_niigata.html), [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html) and [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html).

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

[Limited express](e2016.html#category) trains, named "Odoriko" and "Saphir Odoriko", connect [Tokyo](e2164.html) via [Atami](e6317.html) (80 minutes, around 3500 yen) and [Ito](e6307.html) (100 minutes, around 4000 yen) with [Shimoda](e6300.html) (160 minutes, around 6000 yen) in the south of the [Izu Peninsula](e6310.html). In Tokyo, most trains use Tokyo Station, while a few use Shinjuku Station. Shimoda's railway station is called Izukyu-Shimoda Station.

"Saphir Odoriko" trains carry only Green Car and Premium Green Car seats (Premium Green Car seats are not covered by the Green Car version of the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html)) and require advance reservations, while "Odoriko" trains carry ordinary and Green Car seats, including some non-reserved ordinary seats.

Note that between Ito and Shimoda, these limited express trains are running on the tracks of the Izukyu Railway, which means that [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) holders will have to pay a supplement fee when traveling along this section. The one way supplement fee for the journey between Ito and Shimoda is 2,490 yen. In contrast, the journey is fully covered all the way to Shimoda by the [JR Tokyo Wide Pass](e2361_06.html), [JR East Nagano Niigata Area Pass](e2361_nagano_niigata.html), [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html) and [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html) thanks to an exception to the rule.

Some Odoriko trains carry a few wagons which are separated from the rest of the train at Atami Station and continue to run via Mishima Station to Shuzenji Station. The one way journey from Tokyo to [Shuzenji](e6311.html) by direct Odoriko limited express train takes two hours and costs about 4500 yen.

Note that between Mishima and Shuzenji, the Odoriko limited express is running on the tracks of the Izuhakone Railway Company, which means that [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) holders will have to pay a supplement fee of 550 yen when traveling along this section. On the train journey to Shuzenji, the [JR Tokyo Wide Pass](e2361_06.html), [JR East Nagano Niigata Area Pass](e2361_nagano_niigata.html), [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html) and [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html) are not valid beyond Atami.

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

It is also possible to access the Izu Peninsula by [local trains](e2016.html#category) along the JR Tokaido Line. The one way journey from Tokyo to Atami takes about 100 minutes and costs 1980 yen. To Mishima it takes about two hours, costs 2310 yen and usually requires a transfer of trains at Atami Station.

If you are based in [Shinjuku](e3011.html), you could save a few yen by taking the Odakyu Railway from Shinjuku to Odawara and transfer to the JR Tokaido Line there. The whole journey to Atami would take more than two hours but cost only 1330 yen. To Mishima it would take about 2.5 hours and cost 1590 yen.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

The [Izu Peninsula](e6310.html) is served by two [railway](e2019.html) lines and a relatively efficient [bus](e2015.html) network. It is also a suitable region of Japan to be explored by [rental car](e2024.html), motorcycle or [bicycle](e2210.html). Please see the individual pages about [Shimoda](e6300.html#section_get_there), [Ito](e6307.html#section_get_there) and [Atami](e6317.html#section_get_there) for further access and orientation details.

#### Rail

The JR Ito Line leads from [Atami](e6317.html) to [Ito](e6307.html), from where the Izukyu Line continues further south to [Shimoda](e6300.html). Note that Shimoda's railway station is called Izukyu-Shimoda Station. There are roughly two local trains per hour that run all the way between Atami and Shimoda in each direction plus a few Odoriko limited express trains to/from [Tokyo](e2164.html). The one way journey from Atami to Shimoda by [local train](e2016.html#category) takes about 90 minutes and costs 2020 yen. By [limited express train](e2016.html#category) it takes about 70 minutes and costs around 3500 yen.

Since the railway tracks south of Ito are owned by Izukyu Railways, holders of the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) will have to pay a supplement when using this section. The supplement between Ito and Shimoda is 1690 yen on local trains and 2490 yen on limited express trains (one way). However, thanks to a special agreement, the trip is fully covered by the [JR Toyko Wide Pass](e2361_06.html), [JR East Nagano Niigata Area Pass](e2361_nagano_niigata.html), [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html) and [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html).

The other railway line serving the Izu Peninsula is the Izuhakone Line from Mishima to [Shuzenji](e6311.html). There are departures every 10-20 minutes in each direction. The one way journey takes 30 minutes and costs 550 yen. JR passes are not valid for this trip.

#### Bus

Tokai Bus operates a dense and relatively efficient [bus](e2015.html) network that covers most of the [Izu Peninsula](e6310.html) and is centered around the major railway stations, including [Atami](e6317.html), [Ito](e6307.html), [Shuzenji](e6311.html) and [Shimoda](e6300.html). The fare is proportional to the distance traveled and is paid when exiting the bus. The ten major [IC cards](e2359_003.html), including Suica, Icoca and Pasmo, are accepted on Tokai buses.

Tokai Bus also offers a variety of bus passes for the different areas of the [Izu Peninsula](e6310.html). In addition to unlimited use of buses, many also include discounted admission to selected attractions within the areas covered. Some of the most useful passes include:

* **Atami 1-Day Pass** (800 yen)
    
  Unlimited use of the YuYu sightseeing loop bus and other buses in central [Atami](e6317.html).

* **Ito 2-Day Pass** (1800 yen)
    
  Unlimited use of buses in central [Ito](e6307.html) and around Izu Kogen and the [Jogasaki Coast](e6308.html).

* **Izu Kogen and Jogasaki 1-Day Pass** (1250 yen)
    
  Unlimited use of buses around Izu Kogen and the [Jogasaki Coast](e6308.html).

* **Irozaki and Shimoda 2-Day Pass** (2400 yen)
    
  Unlimited use of buses around [Shimoda](e6300.html), including [Cape Irozaki](e6303.html) and [Kawazu](e6313.html).

* **Dogashima, Matsuzaki and Irozaki 2-Day Pass** (3400 yen)
    
  Same coverage area as the above-listed "Irozaki and Shimoda 2-Day Pass" plus the buses to Matsuzaki and [Dogashima](e6312.html).

#### Rental Car

Exploring the [Izu Peninsula](e6310.html) by [rental car](e2024.html) can be very pleasurable and efficient. Rental car outlets can be found near many major railway stations, such as Mishima, Atami, Ito, Izu Kogen, Shuzenji and Shimoda. Driving from Atami Station to [Cape Irozaki](e6303.html) takes about 2.5 hours.

Like around most of Japan, the roads on the Izu Peninsula are well maintained and [drivers](e2022.html) are relatively considerate. However, traffic jams along the peninsula's eastern coast are not unusual on weekends and during holidays. Traffic along the western and southern areas of the peninsula tends to be much lighter.

Due to the mountainous terrain of the peninsula, many inland roads have steep and winding passages, including the Izu Skyline and Nishi-Izu Skyline, two toll roads with spectacular views of the surrounding scenery.