---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6055.html
title: Best cherry blossom spots in Matsumoto (Matsumoto Hanami Spots)
description: A list of popular hanami (cherry blossom viewing) spots in Matsumoto.
keywords: matsumoto, sakura, cherry, blossom, blossoms, hanami, spot, spots
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2055
char_count: 13434
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:04:05
---

Below is a list of [Matsumoto](e6050.html)'s most popular spots for cherry blossom viewing ([hanami](e2011.html)), including the typical timing for best viewing in the average year and japan-guide.com ratings. See also our nationwide list of [famous cherry blossom spots](e2011_where.html).

* 

  [Matsumoto Castle••](e6051.html)

  Mid April

  15 minute walk from Matsumoto Station  
  Inner grounds: 8:30 to 17:00, 1200-1300 yen

  [Matsumoto Castle](e6051.html) is one of the most beautiful of Japan's original [castles](e2296.html). There are about 300 cherry trees planted around the castle moats and inside the paid inner grounds of the castle.
* 

  Koboyama Park•

  Mid April

  15 minute bus ride south of Matsumoto Station  
  Admission: free

  Koboyama Park is a unique hill (actually an ancient kofun tomb) in southern [Matsumoto City](e6050.html) that is almost entirely covered by nearly 2000 cherry trees. The top of the park has views of the Japan Alps across the valley and there many nice spots for [hanami](e2011_how.html) picnics.
* 

  Joyama Park

  Mid April

  20 minute bus ride north of Matsumoto Station  
  Admission: free

  Joyama Park is a medium sized park on the hills north of [Matsumoto](e6050.html)'s city center with some impressive rows of cherry trees and a lawn area.
* 

  Alps Park

  Mid April

  20 minute bus ride north of Matsumoto Station  
  Admission: free

  A little bit further up on the same hill as Joyama Park (see above) is Alps Park, a spacious community park with a few groups of cherry trees and a beautiful weeping cherry tree. Views of the Japanese Alps can be enjoyed on days with good visibility.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

[How to get to and around Matsumoto](e6053.html)


* + [

    Sponsored](/link.html?/e/e6055.html+hotel+sobahouse+1+4+sponsored+https://sobahouse.jp/en/)

    [Soba House Azumino: private, luxe Japanese accommodation](/link.html?/e/e6055.html+hotel+sobahouse+1+4+sponsored+https://sobahouse.jp/en/)

    Located in the forest at the foot of the Northern Alps. 40min by car or train from Matsumoto. Our hotel offers a private hot spring and sauna, as well as soba-making classes.

    [View site](/link.html?/e/e6055.html+hotel+sobahouse+1+4+sponsored+https://sobahouse.jp/en/)

    Sponsored