---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6027.html
title: How to get to and around Yamanouchi\: Access, Transportation and Orientation
description: How to get to and around the Yamanouchi area.
keywords: yamanouchi, access, orientation, transportation, get there, directions, train, bus, nagaden
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2028
char_count: 13751
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:15:46
---

### How to get to Yamanouchi

Most visitors to [Yamanouchi](e6025.html) will access the town from [Nagano City](e6000.html) ([how to get to Nagano](e6003.html)).

#### By train from Nagano

Nagaden (Nagano Electric Railway) operates 1-2 trains per hour between [Nagano](e6000.html) (underground Nagaden Nagano Station, next to JR Nagano Station) and [Yamanouchi](e6025.html) (Yudanaka Station). Besides [local](e2016.html#category) trains (70 minutes, 1190 yen one way, most connections require a transfer at Shinshu-Nakano Station along the way), there are also a few direct [limited express](e2016.html#category) trains (45 minutes, 1290 yen with unreserved seat, 1590 yen with reserved seat). None of the trains are covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html).

#### By express bus from Nagano

Nagaden operates express buses between [Nagano](e6000.html) (East Exit of Nagano Station) and [Shiga Kogen](e6026.html). There are five buses per day in summer and 7-8 buses per day in winter. The buses do not stop in central [Yudanaka](e6024.html) or [Shibu Onsen](e6029.html), but they stop at the Snow Monkey Park bus stop (40 minutes, 2000 yen one way) from where the [Jigokudani Monkey Park](e6028.html) can be reached. In [Shiga Kogen](e6026.html), all buses stop at Shiga Kogen Yamanoeki (70 minutes, 2500 yen), and some continue in direction of either Oku Shiga Kogen or Mount Yokoteyama.

#### By bus from Kusatsu Onsen

From late April to early November (currently out of service due to a volcano-related road closure), there are two daily buses between [Nagano](e6000.html) and [Kusatsu Onsen](e7400.html), which stop at the [Snow Monkey Park](e6028.html) bus stop along the way. The bus ride between the Snow Monkey Park bus stop and Kusatsu Onsen takes about 100 minutes and costs 4200 yen.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](/e/e2196.html).

[Yamanouchi](e6025.html) is a municipality in northern [Nagano Prefecture](/list/e1216.html). Western Yamanouchi is relatively flat and consists of the area's populated areas, including the [hot spring](e2292.html) towns of [Yudanaka Onsen](e6024.html) and [Shibu Onsen](e6029.html). East of those towns, Yamanouchi becomes mountainous and only sparsely populated. This is where the [Jigokudani Monkey Park](e6028.html) and [Shiga Kogen](e6026.html) are located.

Trains go only as far as Yudanaka Station. From Yudanaka Station, buses continue to the Snow Monkey Park bus stop and beyond to [Shiga Kogen](e6026.html) at least once per hour. From the Snow Monkey Park bus stop a hiking trail leads to the [Jigokudani Monkey Park](e6028.html).

Map of Shiga Kogen in winter: