---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6460.html
title: Japan Mobility Show 2025 (formerly known as Tokyo Motor Show)
description: Visitor guide for the Japan Mobility Show held at Tokyo Big Sight, formerly known as Tokyo Motor Show.
keywords: japan, mobility, tokyo, motor, show, big, sight
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 3050
char_count: 21475
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:00:15
---

**The 2025 Japan Mobility Show is scheduled to be open to the general public from October 31 to November 9**

[See our report from the 2023 Mobility Show](/blog/raina/231025.html)
  
[See our report from the 2019 Motor Show](/blog/raina/191023.html)
  
[See our report from the 2017 Motor Show](/blog/raina/171025.html)
  
[See our report from the 2015 Motor Show](/blog/raina/151028.html)

Formerly known as Tokyo Motor Show, the Japan Mobility Show is one of the world's top car shows, taking place every two years. It introduces passenger and commercial vehicles, motorcycles and the latest in mobility technology. It is held at Tokyo Big Sight on [Odaiba](e3008.html).

The Japan Mobility Show features the latest production vehicles of domestic and international brands, including concept cars, many of which have their world debut here. Combined with the show's demonstrations and hands-on events, visitors can have the opportunity to see and experience some of the latest in vehicle engineering, passenger safety and future technology.

* 

  Passenger vehicles

  Passenger vehicles comprise the bulk of the show with many leading manufacturers exhibiting their latest models. You can get inside, touch and explore many of the cars on display. Several makers, especially domestic ones, showcase concept vehicles, showing off their cutting edge technologies.
* 

  Commercial vehicles

  The commercial vehicles section includes top makers of buses, trucks and vans. You can climb inside many of the vehicles and learn about the newest features and accessories that allow them to do their jobs more easily and safely. You can also see various concept models representing the latest technology in commercial vehicles.
* 

  Motorcycles

  Major motorcycle makers such as Honda, Yamaha, Kawasaki and Suzuki show their latest and greatest models, many of which you can get on. Many makers display their entire model line, and you can also see racing motorcycles and the latest concept models.
* 

  Parts, tools, tires and entertainment

  The latest parts, tools, tires and vehicle entertainment systems are displayed throughout the convention halls. You can see some of the latest technology that goes into making new vehicles safer and easier to use, as well as advanced audio, visual and navigation systems that make driving more enjoyable.

The Japan Mobility Show also offers hands-on experiences that vary from show to show, and typically include test drives of passenger vehicles and motorcycles, as well as ride-alongs in alternative fuel passenger and commercial vehicles. Additionally, the show has displays and special exhibition which in past years have included the history of motoring, carrozzeria exhibits and demonstrations by the Chiba Prefectural Police, professional trick motorcyclists and commercial and emergency vehicles.

Concept handicapped accessible vehicle

The Japan Mobility Show is held at the Tokyo Big Sight convention center on [Odaida](e3008.html) in [Tokyo](e2164.html). Tokyo Big Sight is a few steps from Tokyo Big Sight Station on the Yurikamome Line or a five minute walk from Kokusai-Tenjijo Station on the Rinkai Line.

[Tokyo Orientation](e2017.html)