---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6203.html
title: Hitachi Seaside Park (Hitachi Kaihin Koen)
description: Visitor guide for Hitachi Seaside Park in Ibaraki Prefecture, a large public park famous for its large flower fields.
keywords: hitachi, seaside, park, hitachinaka, ibaraki, park, japan
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 601
char_count: 4119
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:22:58
---

Miharashi Hill and nemophila at Hitachi Seaside Park

Hitachi Seaside Park (ひたち海浜公園, Hitachi Kaihin Kōen) is a spacious park near [Mito](e6200.html) in [Ibaraki Prefecture](/list/e1211.html) featuring a variety of green spaces and seasonal [flowers](e2423.html) spread out across 350 hectares, as well as an amusement park and several [cycling](e2210.html) and walking trails.

The park's iconic flower is the blue nemophila, which covers **Miharashi Hill** in the spring and mimics the color of the sky. The flowers are usually at their peak from late April to mid May. Paths crisscross the hill providing views over the Pacific Ocean and the rest of the park. In fall, the hill is covered by green kokia bushes which slowly turn red as the weather turns cooler. These autumnal colors are usually best from early to mid October.

Cosmos and red Kokia on Miharashi Hill in fall

Although the nemophila are the most well-known of the park's flowers, assorted **other flowers** bloom throughout most of the year. Near the park's main entrance is a large forested area featuring the Suisen Garden where narcissus usually bloom from mid March, while across the lake tulips bloom usually around late April.

Although flowers are seasonal highlights, the park can be enjoyed year round. There are walking trails through the extensive Hitachinaka Nature Forest, while the Dune Garden showcases plants native to the coastline of Japan. Even when the rest of the park is crowded, this area often remains relatively quiet.

Paths through the Dune Garden are peaceful even during busy seasons

Hitachi Seaside Park also features a **small amusement park** with over 25 rides and attractions, including a 100 meter tall Ferris wheel, putter golf, a BMX course and a roller coaster among others. Most of the rides and activities require extra fees. Restaurants and rest areas are scattered throughout the park, and a BBQ area is available for picnics.

Due to the size of the park, there are two other methods of getting around besides walking. [Rental bicycles](e2210.html) are available starting from 600 yen for three hours of use, and almost eleven kilometers of **cycling paths** - separate from pedestrian paths - allow easy access to the different areas of the park. A small train (on tires) also travels the perimeter of the park with stops at numerous locations. The train costs 600 yen for a 1-day pass.

Bike and pedestrian paths are separated for easy and safe use

### From Mito

From [Mito Station](e6200.html), take the JR Joban Line to Katsuta Station (5 minutes, 190 yen one way, multiple trains/hour), from where the [buses](e2015.html) takes you to the park (15 minutes, 400 yen one way, every 20-30 minutes).

### By highway bus from Tokyo (currently unavailable)

There used to be infrequent, direct [highway buses](e2366.html) between Tokyo Station and Hitachi Seaside Park (2.5 hours, 2450 yen one way); however, they are currently not operated at times that are useful to park visitors.

[How to get to and around Mito](e6202.html)