---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6902.html
title: Fujigoko Onsen Guide (Hot Spring Baths)
description: A list of hot spring baths around the base of Mount Fuji.
keywords: hot, spring, springs, bath, baths, onsen view, views, mount, fuji
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2708
char_count: 18454
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:28:13
---

View from Hotel Mifujien's baths

[Hot spring](e2292.html) baths can be enjoyed at [ryokan](e2029.html) and [public bath houses](e2074.html) across the [Fuji Five Lake](e6900.html) region. Some of the baths come with views of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html), especially those located in the ryokan and hotels along the northeastern shores of [Lake Kawaguchiko](e6906.html).

Day trip visitors have the option to visit public bath houses as well as the baths of a few ryokan and hotels which open their baths to non-staying visitors during daytime. Below is a list of some of the better [public baths](e2074.html) and [ryokan](e2029.html) baths that are open to daytime visitors:

### Near Lake Kawaguchiko

* 

  Fujiyama Onsen•

  Hours: 6:30-9:00 and 10:00-23:00  
  Closed: Infrequent irregular closing days  
  Admission: 800 yen (mornings), 1600 yen (weekdays), 2000 yen (weekends)

  This new facility is run by and located next to [Fuji Q Highland](e6918.html). Its baths are a modern take on traditional wooden bathhouses with both indoor and outdoor baths for each gender. Unfortunately the baths do not face Mount Fuji, but there is a good view of the mountain from the restaurant.
* 

  Hotel Mifujien

  Daytime Hours: 13:00 to 21:00 (entry until 20:00)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Daytime admission: 1200 yen

  This aging hotel is the only one of the [ryokan](e2029.html) and hotels along [Lake Kawaguchiko](e6906.html)'s northeastern shore which opens its baths to non-staying guests during the day. Its gender separated bathing facilities have seen better days, but the views of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html) are quite nice.
* 

  Kaiun no Yu

  Daytime Hours: Inquire with the operator  
  Closed: Irregular closures for maintenance  
  Daytime admission: 1000 yen for 2 hours

  Kaiun no Yu is part of the Royal Hotel Kawaguchiko along the lake's southern shore. The baths are open to non staying guests, however, they are rather average and do not have views of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html).

### Near Lake Saiko

* 

  Yurari•

  Hours: 10:00 to 21:00 (until 22:00 on weekends and [national holidays](e2062.html))  
  Admission ends 60 minutes before closing  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 1400 yen (weekdays), 1700 yen (weekends)

  Yurari is a modern, beautifully designed public [hot spring](e2292.html) facility with a variety of gender segregated indoor and outdoor baths. The baths on the second floor have nice views of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html). Private baths with views of the mountain are also available (60 minutes, 3500 yen).

### Near Lake Yamanakako

* 

  Benifuji no Yu•

  Hours: 11:00 to 19:00 (until 20:00 on weekends and [national holidays](e2062.html))  
  Admission ends 45 minutes before closing  
  Closed: Tuesdays  
  Admission: 900 yen

  Benifuji no Yu, while unassuming from the outside, offers its bathers some of the best views of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html) among the public baths in the area. Each side of the gender segregated facility has multiple indoor baths and two large, roof covered outdoor baths surrounded by trees and gardens.
* 

  Ishiwari no Yu

  Hours: 11:00 to 19:00 (until 20:00 on weekends and [national holidays](e2062.html))  
  Admission ends 45 minutes before closing  
  Closed: Thursdays  
  Admission: 900 yen

  Ishiwari no Yu is the sister bath of Benifuji no Yu and stands on the opposite side of [Lake Yamanakako](e6908.html). The baths are built in a similar, albeit more compact style, however Ishiwari no Yu's location does not offer views of Mount Fuji.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

### Fujiyama Onsen

Fujiyama Onsen is located just to the south of the [Fuji Q Highland](e6918.html) amusement park and can be accessed by the [Omni Bus Red Line](e6905.html) (Kawaguchiko Line) from Kawaguchiko Station.

### Hotel Mifujien

The [Omni Bus Red Line](e6905.html) (Kawaguchiko Line) connects Kawaguchiko Station and the Asakawa Onsengai bus stop (20 minutes), just a few steps away from the hotel. You could also walk there from Kawaguchiko Station in about 30-40 minutes.

### Tensui Kawaguchiko

The [Omni Bus Red Line](e6905.html) (Kawaguchiko Line) connects Kawaguchiko Station and the Kubota Itchiku Bijutsukan bus stop (25 minutes) from where it is a ten minute walk uphill past the [Kubota Itchiku Museum](e6912.html) to the bath house.

### Kaiun no Yu

[Omni buses](e6905.html) along the red and green lines operate between Kawaguchiko Station and the Kawaguchiko Herbkan bus stop (15 minutes) just a few steps away from the Royal Hotel Kawaguchiko where the baths are located.

### Yurari

The [Omni Bus Blue Line](e6905.html) stops at the Michi-no-eki Narusawa near Yurari (25 minutes, 680 yen one way from Kawaguchiko). Alternatively, regular buses from Kawaguchiko Station bound for Shin-Fuji, Shimobe Onsen and Motosuko stop near Yurari at the Fuji Midorino Kyukamura bus stop (20 minutes, 600 yen from Kawaguchiko). Together, they provide roughly one connection per hour.

### Benifuji no Yu

Benifuji is located a few hundred meters west of the western tip of Lake Yamanakako, a short walk off the main road. [Fujikko buses](e6905.html) from Fujisan Station stop right in front of the bath house, while other buses stop at the Hananomiyako-Koen bus stop along the main road, a five minute walk away. [Highway buses](e2366.html) from Tokyo serve only the Hotel Mount Fuji Iriguchi bus stop, a 15 minute walk away.

### Ishiwari no Yu

Ishiwari no Yu is located one kilometer east of Hirano at the eastern tip of Lake Yamanakako. Hirano can be reached by Fujikko Bus and [regular buses](e2015.html) from Fujisan Station (45 minutes, 910 yen one way by regular bus) and by [highway buses](e2366.html) directly from [Tokyo](e2164.html). The bath house is a 15 minute walk from the Hirano bus stop.

[How to get to and around the Fuji Five Lakes](e6905.html)