---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6832.html
title: Blue Pond (Aoiike)
description: Visitor guide for the Aoiike, a naturally deep blue colored pond near Shirogane Onsen in Biei, Hokkaido.
keywords: biei, blue, pond, aoiike, aoi, ike, furano, shirogane, onsen
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1816
char_count: 11579
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:31:43
---

The Blue Pond (青い池, Aoiike) outside the [hot spring](e2292.html) town of Shirogane Onsen is named after its deep blue color which it owes to natural minerals dissolved in the water. Not promoted as a tourist spot until recent years, the pond is part of an erosion control system to prevent damage to [Biei](e6828.html) in case of an eruption by nearby [Mount Tokachidake](e6782.html).

Besides a parking lot, the pond has not seen much touristic development. It takes visitors 5-10 minutes to walk through the forest to the pond. Around the pond there is not much to do other than to enjoy the scenery, which also includes some concrete structures of the erosion control system. The pond gets lit up on winter evenings from late October to late April (October 25, 2025 to April 23, 2026) from after sunset until 9pm.

The Blue Pond is located along prefectural road number 966, which connects central [Biei](e6828.html) with [Tokachidake Onsen](e6782.html) via Shirogane Onsen. A parking lot (500 yen per car) is located next to the road from where the pond can be reached in a 5-10 minute walk.

[Buses](e2015.html) between Biei Station and Shirogane Onsen stop at Shirogane Aoiike Iriguchi (白金青い池入口) bus stop along the way. The one way ride from Biei Station to the pond takes 20 minutes and costs 800 yen one way. There are buses every 1-2 hours. In summer, the blue pond gets visited also by some [sightseeing buses](e6829.html).

[How to get to and around Furano](e6829.html)


* + [

    Sponsored](/link.html?/e/e6832.html+hotel+worldwidebase+1+3+sponsored+https://wwb-furano.studio.site/)

    [Stay in Furano for Flower Fields, Skiing, and Fun](/link.html?/e/e6832.html+hotel+worldwidebase+1+3+sponsored+https://wwb-furano.studio.site/)

    Perfect for couples or groups! Stay in a beautiful house or apartment with quick and easy access to Furano's attractions and stunning nature.

    [View site](/link.html?/e/e6832.html+hotel+worldwidebase+1+3+sponsored+https://wwb-furano.studio.site/)

    Sponsored