---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6006.html
title: Togakure Ninpo Museum (Togakure Ninja Museum)
description: Visitor guide for the Togakure Ninpo Museum, which exhibits the Togakure school of ninja.
keywords: togakure, ninpo, museum, ninja, ninjutsu, togakushi, nagano
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1979
char_count: 13215
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:23:12
---

The Ninja House

The Togakure Ninpo Museum (戸隠流忍法資料館, Togakure-ryū Ninpō Shiryōkan) is devoted to the local Togakure school of [ninja](e2295.html). In the 12th century, a warrior from [Nagano](e6000.html) fled to [Iga](e4350.html) after fighting on the losing side of a war between the [Minamoto and Taira](e2132.html) clans. Iga was the traditional bedrock of the ninja, and the warrior learned his ninja skills there before returning to Nagano and starting his own ninja school.

The museum is located in the forested mountains about an hour by bus northwest of central [Nagano](e6000.html), just across the entrance to the [Upper Togakushi Shrine](e6005.html). The museum consists of multiple buildings, one of which showcases tools and weapons used by Togakure Ninja and exhibits many interesting photos of them practising techniques of warfare and infiltration.

Gallery of photos showing Togakure ninja in action

The museum also features a **Ninja House**, a building which looks ordinary on the outside but has many secret doors, passages and contraptions on the inside. It is great fun to find the way through the excellently designed maze in the house. There is also a throwing star (shuriken) throwing range, where for a small fee visitors can try throwing shuriken at target boards.

Within the same compound stands also the **Museum of Togakushi Folklore**, which exhibits tools, clothing, receptacles and furniture used by people living in the area in the past.

Museum of Togakushi Folklore

Express [buses](e2015.html) for tourists run every hour between Nagano Station, the Togakure Ninpo Museum and the [Togakushi shrines](e6005.html). To reach the museum, get off at the Togakushi-Okushairiguchi bus stop (戸隠奥社入口, 60 minutes, 2000 yen one way). Seat reservations should be made in advance [online](https://www.highwaybus.com/gp/inbound/inbPlanList?lineId=256) or at the Alpico Bus ticket office at Nagano Station, although it is possible to board the bus without reservation if there are vacant seats.

A separate bus operates hourly between the museum and shrines for 400 yen per ride.

[How to get to and around Nagano](e6003.html)