---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6029.html
title: Shibu Onsen
description: Visitor guide for Shibu Onsen, an attractive hot spring town with a traditional atmosphere.
keywords: shibu, onsen, hot, spring, town, traditional
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2082
char_count: 13914
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:48:16
---

Walking the streets of Shibu Onsen in geta and yukata

Shibu Onsen (渋温泉) is a historic and attractive [hot spring town](e2292.html) in [Yamanouchi](e6025.html), which has retained a traditional atmosphere. Nestled in a small valley, Shibu Onsen is spread out on a gentle slope beside the Yokoyugawa River, with [Yudanaka Onsen](e6024.html) located below and the [Jigokudani Monkey Park](e6028.html) above.

During its long history, the area has been visited for its hot spring water by a lot of people, including priests, samurai and poets. Some of the [ryokan](e2029.html) (Japanese style inns) that line Shibu's narrow streets, date back over 400 years, adding greatly to Shibu's atmosphere. Guests of the ryokan are encouraged to take a stroll around town in the traditional onsen clothing of [yukata](e2103.html) robes and geta sandals.

One incentive to walk around the town is to make use of the [public bath houses](e2074.html), of which there are nine. The public baths are locked and, except for one, accessible only to locals and overnight guests, who are provided with a master key by their [ryokan](e2029.html). The bath houses are small and gender-separated, and the baths themselves are quite simple. The bath houses are numbered, but also have special names and cure different ailments.

Entrance to the female side of the Oyu bath house

It is said that good fortune comes to those who visit all nine bath houses. Special cloths are sold for collecting stamps from each bath house and make nice souvenirs. The stamps are found in front of each bath house. Although the bath house tour can be done only by overnight guests, the ninth and largest of the bath houses, the "Oyu" bath house, is also open to day trippers. The Oyu is located in the center of town, and its waters are quite hot.

When passing through Shibu, people can often be seen in the streets wearing their [yukata](e2103.html), likely traveling between public baths. There are also sometimes other, uninvited guests roaming the streets who wear nothing at all. Rarely observing proper [onsen etiquette](e2292_how.html), monkeys from the neighboring forests occasionally descend into the town in search of food. It is unlikely to encounter the monkeys in the bath houses though, as they seem to prefer their own bath at the nearby [Jigokudani Monkey Park](e6028.html).

Shibu Onsen beside the Yokoyugawa River

One or two [buses](e2015.html) per hour travel from Yudanaka Station to Shibu Onsen (5 minutes, 250 yen one way). Alternatively, it takes about five minutes and around 1200 yen by [taxi](e2021.html) or around 30 minutes on foot.

[How to get to and around Yamanouchi](e6027.html)