---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6317.html
title: Atami Travel Guide
description: Visitor guide for Atami, a seaside resort town in eastern Izu.
keywords: atami, travel, guide, sightseeing, visit, visitor, tourism, tourist
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1981
char_count: 12791
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:48:38
---

Atami (熱海) lies at the northeastern base of the [Izu Peninsula](e6310.html), less than an hour west of [Tokyo](e2164.html) by [shinkansen](e2018.html). Due to its proximity to Tokyo, Atami has long been a popular seaside resort town with plenty of [hot springs](e2292.html) and [ryokan](e2029.html) in addition to museums and other cultural sites.

Through the extravagant years of the bubble economy in the late 1980s, Atami was a highly popular destination for business retreats. This led to huge developments in the area, including large [ryokan](e2029.html) and apartment blocks built along the ocean. When the bubble burst in the early 1990s, many of these large establishments and the city as a whole suffered from the decline. In recent years, however, the city has been quite successful in reinventing itself as a popular destination for individual travelers and families.

* 

  [MOA Museum of Art](e6306.html)

  Hours: 9:30 to 16:30   
  Closed: Thursdays (unless it is a national holiday), in between exhibitions   
  Admission: 1760 yen

  Opened in 1982, the [MOA Museum of Art](e6306.html) has an impressive collection of Japanese and East Asian art. Also on the premises is a [Japanese style garden](e2099.html) with [tea houses](e2096.html) and a [noh theater](e2091.html).
* 

  [Kiunkaku Former Ryokan](e6319.html)

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Wednesdays (unless it is a national holiday), December 26 to 30  
  Admission: 610 yen

  [Kiunkaku](e6319.html) is a well preserved former residence that hosted many illustrious guests during the years when it served as a [ryokan](e2029.html). Visitors can view the ryokan buildings which surround a beautiful garden at their center, and enter several of the facility's common rooms and former guest rooms which are designed with both Western and East Asian influences.
* 

  [Atami Castle](e6318.html)

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 1100 yen (castle), 1100 yen (trick art museum), 1800 yen (both)

  Built in 1959, [Atami Castle](e6318.html) is a touristy, concrete museum built in the shape of a castle. There are different exhibitions on each floor of the [castle tower](e2296.html) as well as an observatory with panoramic views of Atami city on the top floor. Next door to the main building is a trick art museum. The castle grounds are a popular spot during the [cherry blossom season](e2011.html) and Atami's [firework displays](e2267.html).

### How to get to Atami

Atami is connected to [Tokyo](e2164.html) by the [JR Tokaido Shinkansen](e2018_tokaido.html) (40-50 minutes, about 4000 yen one way, 1-3 trains/hour) and by direct local and rapid trains along the JR Tokaido Line (100-120 minutes, 1980 yen one way, about 3 trains/hour). The shinkansen ride is covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), but not by the [JR Tokyo Wide Pass](e2361_06.html), [JR East Nagano Niigata Area Pass](e2361_nagano_niigata.html), [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html) and [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html). The trip by local or rapid trains is fully covered by all the above-mentioned passes

### How to get around Atami

Atami is built on a steep mountain slope, and its attractions are spread across a relatively wide area. Consequently, it is not easily walkable, and more conveniently explored by [bus](e2015.html) or [taxi](e2021.html).

The **Yuyu Sightseeing Loop Bus** is a bus for tourists that serves most of the city's sightseeing spots (with the prominent exception of the [MOA Museum of Art](e6306.html)) every 20-60 minutes. The bus costs 300 yen per ride and is covered by the **Atami 1-Day Pass**, which costs 800 yen and also covers other Tokai Bus lines around Atami, while providing discounts on admission to selected sights. It can be purchased at the Tokai Bus ticket counter at Atami Station or inside the Yuyu buses.

[How to get to and around the Izu Peninsula](e6305.html)