---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6040.html
title: Kamikochi Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Kamikochi, a scenic mountain resort in the Japanese Alps.
keywords: kamikochi, nagano, japan, tavel, sightseeing, visitor, tourism, guide
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 978
char_count: 6843
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 11:38:06
---

Kamikochi (上高地, Kamikōchi) is a popular resort in the [Northern Japan Alps](e6043.html) of [Nagano Prefecture](/list/e1216.html), offering some of Japan's most spectacular mountain scenery. It is **open from April 17 until November 15** and shuts down during winter.

Kamikochi is a 15 kilometer long plateau along the Azusa River, about 1500 meters above sea level. It is surrounded by tall mountains, including Nishihotakadake (2909 m), Okuhotakadake (3190 m), Maehotakadake (3090 m) and the [volcanically](e2327.html) active Yakedake (2455 m).

Part of the [Chubu Sangaku National Park](e6043.html), Kamikochi has been only moderately developed with half a dozen [hotels](e2025.html), a few souvenir shops, mountain huts and hiking trails. Private [cars](e2024.html) are banned from Kamikochi, and access is possible only by [bus](e2015.html) or [taxi](e2021.html).

In the center of Kamikochi, a short walk from the bus terminal, stands the [Kappabashi](#kappa) (Kappa Bridge). From the Kappabashi, hiking trails lead up and down the valley and towards the summits of the surrounding mountains.

The simplest way to enjoy a day in Kamikochi is by hiking the trails along Azusa River from [Taisho Pond](#taisho) to Myojin Bridge. It is a mostly flat terrain and requires no hiking experience and only a few hours of time. The climbs to the surrounding peaks, however, are more challenging and recommended only between mid June and mid September.

Kamikochi is particularly beautiful during the [autumn foliage](e2014.html) season, which usually peaks in mid October. A wide range of alpine flora can be viewed from May through October, with the best time being mid May through July. Among the [wildlife](e2122.html) to be observed are monkeys and various birds. Bears are rarely encountered.

Be warned that Kamikochi, especially around Kappabashi, gets very busy during the summer holidays (mid July through August) and on weekends during the [autumn leaf](e2014.html) season (October).

* 

  Taisho Pond

  Taisho Pond (Taishoike) was formed in 1915, when an eruption of the nearby volcano Yakedake dammed Azusa River. Decayed trees, standing in the pond, provide a special sight.
* 

  Tashiro Pond

  Tashiro Pond, one of Kamikochi's most scenic spots, is a small pond surrounded by marshland. It is located along the hiking trail that connects the Kappabashi with Taisho Pond.
* 

  Kamikochi Imperial Hotel

  Built in 1933, the Imperial Hotel (Teikoku Hotel) is the most prestigious [accommodation](e2025.html) in Kamikochi, offering a combination of mountain lodge atmosphere and first class hospitality services.
* 

  Weston Monument

  A small relief to the honor of Walter Weston (1861-1940), the English missionary, who introduced Western style mountain climbing to Kamikochi and Japan and popularized the term "Japanese Alps".
* 

  Kappabashi (Kappa Bridge)

  Kappabashi is a suspension bridge over Azusa River in the center of Kamikochi, not far from the bus terminal. Several [hotels](e2025.html), [restaurants](e2036.html) and souvenir shops can be found around the bridge.
* 

  Dakesawa Marsh

  The Dakesawa Marsh, reached in a 5-10 minute walk from the Kappabashi along the hiking trail towards Myojin Pond, is one of the most scenic areas of Kamikochi.
* 

  Myojin Pond

  Myojin Pond (Myojinike, admission: 500 yen) can be reached in about a one hour walk from the Kappabashi. Hotaka Shrine and the Kamonjigoya (see photo), an atmospheric small lodge with restaurant, stand near the pond.
* 

  Kamikochi Visitor Center

  Open daily from 8:00 to 17:00, the visitor center introduces the geography, geology, fauna, flora and folklore of Kamikochi and provides information to mountain climbers. It is free to enter.

Kamikochi is closed from November 16 to April 16.

#### By train and bus from Matsumoto   *([how to get to Matsumoto](e6053.html))*

Take the Matsumoto Electric Railway from [Matsumoto](e6050.html) Station to Shin-Shimashima Station (30 minutes), followed by a bus ride to Kamikochi (60 minutes). The entire one way fare is 3710 yen. There are also a small number of direct buses from Matsumoto Bus Terminal to Kamikochi (but not in the opposite direction), costing 4450 yen one way. Note that reservations are required for the buses but not for the train. Reservations can be made starting from one month before travel date through Japan Bus Online (see links below) or at Alpico bus ticket offices. The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) is not valid.

* [Reserve direct buses from Matsumoto to Kamikochi](https://japanbusonline.com/en/CourseSearch/11600350001?AreaCd=420&afcd=MDI=)
* [Reserve buses from Shin-Shimashima to Kamikochi](https://japanbusonline.com/en/CourseSearch/11600370001?AreaCd=420&afcd=MDI=)
* [Reserve buses from Kamikochi to Shin-Shimashima](https://japanbusonline.com/en/CourseSearch/11600270201?AreaCd=420&afcd=MDI=)

#### By train and bus from Takayama   *([how to get to Takayama](e5908.html))*

Take a bus from [Takayama](e5900.html) to [Hirayu Onsen](e5940.html) (60 minutes, 1600 yen, hourly), from where there are two buses per hour to Kamikochi (25 minutes, 1500 yen one way, 2800 yen round trip). Seat reservations are not possible.

#### By bus from Tokyo

Alpico operates daytime and overnight [highway buses](e2366.html) between [Tokyo](e2164.html) and Kamikochi. The one way trip takes 5-7 hours and costs 8,000 - 14,000 yen depending on travel date and seat type. Online reservations can be made through [Willer](https://willer-travel.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/nagano/kamikochi/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184).

#### By bus from Kyoto and Osaka

There are overnight buses between [Osaka](e2057.html), [Kyoto](e2058.html) and Kamikochi. The one way ride takes eight hours and costs around 13,000 to 19,000 yen. Online reservations can be made through [Willer](https://willer-travel.com/en/bus_search/osaka/all/nagano/kamikochi/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184).

#### By car

Kamikochi can be reached by [car](e2024.html) by following National Route 158 from [Matsumoto](e6050.html) or [Takayama](e5900.html). Private cars are not allowed to enter Kamikochi. Parking lots are available around the entrance gate to Kamikochi and cost typically 800 yen per calendar day. From the parking lots you can reach Kamikochi in about 20-30 minutes by [bus](e2015.html) (around 1500 yen one way, no seat reservations) or [taxi](e2021.html) (around 4200-5200 yen one way).