---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6106.html
title: How to get to and around Yamaguchi City\: Access, Transportation and Orientation
description: How to get to and around Yamaguchi City.
keywords: yamaguchi, access, orientation, transportation, get there, directions, train
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1718
char_count: 11337
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:18:50
---

### How to get to Yamaguchi

Shin-Yamaguchi Station (formerly known as Ogori Station) is the closest [shinkansen](e2018.html) station to downtown [Yamaguchi](e6100.html) and its attractions. The station is connected with Yamaguchi Station in the city center by the JR Yamaguchi Line (20 minutes, 240 yen one way, 1-3 trains/hour).

#### From Osaka

Shin-Yamaguchi and Shin-Osaka stations are connected by frequent [trains](e2019.html) on the [JR Sanyo Shinkansen](e2018_sanyo.html) (about 2 hours, around 13,000 yen one way). The trip is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) if using a [Sakura](e2018_sanyo.html) train, but a supplement fee is required for riding the [Nozomi](e2018_sanyo.html). Note that International tourists can buy [discounted one-way tickets](e2361_jrwest.html) for only 9,400 yen.

#### From Fukuoka

Shin-Yamaguchi Station and Hakata Station in [Fukuoka](e2161.html) are connected by frequent trains on the [JR Sanyo Shinkansen](e2018_sanyo.html) (about 35 minutes, around 5500 yen one way). The trip is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) if using a Sakura or Kodama train, but a supplement fee is required for riding the [Nozomi](e2018_sanyo.html). Alternatively, international tourists can purchase [discounted one-way tickets](e2361_jrwest.html) for only 3600 yen.

Making the trip by [local trains](e2016.html) will save around half the train fare, but increase the travel time to three hours and require two transfers along the way.

#### From Tokyo

Shin-Yamaguchi and [Tokyo](e2164.html) are connected by frequent [shinkansen](e2018.html) trains. Direct Nozomi trains make the trip once per hour (about 4.5 hours, around 21,000 yen one way), while additional connections require a transfer of trains along the way, typically at Shin-Osaka Station. [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) holders need to pay a supplement fee for the Nozomi, but can take a combination of Hikari and Sakura trains without paying extra, thereby increasing travel time by about an hour.

ANA and JAL operate several [flights](e2365.html) per day between Yamaguchi Ube Airport and [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s [Haneda Airport](e2430.html). Flight duration is 95 minutes. The regular one way fare is around 40,000 yen, but discount tickets are typically available for 10,000 to 21,000 yen. Yamaguchi Ube Airport is connected with Shin-Yamaguchi Station by [bus](e2015.html) (35 minutes, 910 yen one way, timed to flights) or [train](e2016.html) along the JR Ube Line from Kusae Station (40 minutes, 420 yen one way, 1-2 departures per hour). Kusae Station is a five minute walk north of the airport.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](/e/e2196.html).

[Yamaguchi](e6100.html)'s central railway station, **Yamaguchi Station**, is a relatively small station along the non-electrified JR Yamaguchi Line. The larger transportation hub is **Shin-Yamaguchi Station** several kilometers outside the city center. Shin-Yamaguchi Station is served by the [JR Sanyo Shinkansen](e2018_sanyo.html) and several local train and [bus](e2015.html) lines. Yamaguchi and Shin-Yamaguchi Stations are a 20 minute, 240 yen train ride apart from each other.

Most of Yamaguchi's attractions are within three kilometers of Yamaguchi Station and can be reached on foot or by rental [bicycles](e2210.html), which are available outside the station and cost 300 yen for two hours or 700 yen for the whole day. To get to [Joeiji Temple](e6103.html), the nearest station is Miyano Station, which is two stations north of Yamaguchi Station.