---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6600.html
title: Fukui City Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Fukui City, the capital city of Fukui Prefecture.
keywords: fukui, travel, city, tourist, tourism, guide, sightseeing, trip, visitor, information
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 393
char_count: 3268
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 11:39:12
---

Fukui City (福井) is the capital of [Fukui Prefecture](/list/e1223.html) along the Sea of Japan. While Fukui's city center does not offer many major tourist attractions, multiple sites of interest are found in the forested hills and along the rocky coastlines outside of the city. Foremost among them is [Eiheiji Temple](e6601.html), a headquarter of Zen Buddhism. Furthermore, there is the [Fukui Dinosaur Museum](e6602.html), one of the best museums of its type in the world.

During the [Era of Warring States](e2134.html), the region was ruled by the influential Asakura Clan with a bustling castle town at [Ichijodani](e6606.html) outside of today's city center. The clan was eventually defeated by Oda Nobunaga and the castle town destroyed. In contrast, [Maruoka Castle](e6605.html) has survived the feudal and post-feudal era without being destroyed, making it one of only twelve original [castles](e2296.html) left in Japan.

* [](/e/e6602.html)

  1

  Museum

  [Dinosaur Museum•](/e/e6602.html)

  Japan's leading dinosaur museum.

  4.1

  

  95
* [](/e/e6601.html)

  2

  Temple

  [Eiheiji Temple•](/e/e6601.html)

  A center of Japanese Zen Buddhism.

  3.9

  

  265
* [](/e/e6608.html)

  3

  Shrine

  [Heisenji Hakusan Shrine•](/e/e6608.html)

  Highly atmospheric shrine in the forest.

  14
* [](/e/e6604.html)

  4

  Nature

  [Tojinbo](/e/e6604.html)

  Spectacular cliff along the Sea of Japan.

  4.0

  

  87
* [](/e/e6605.html)

  5

  Castle

  [Maruoka Castle](/e/e6605.html)

  One of the twelve original castles.

  3.6

  

  55
* [](/e/e6606.html)

  6

  Historic Site

  [Ichijodani Ruins](/e/e6606.html)

  Ruins of a leading former castle town.

  3.2

  

  29
* [](/e/e6607.html)

  7

  Garden

  [Yokokan Garden](/e/e6607.html)

  Traditional garden with pond-side pavilion.

  11
* [](/e/e6610.html)

  8

  Temple

  [Echizen Great Buddha](/e/e6610.html)

  Temple of gigantic dimensions.

  9
* [](/e/e6611.html)

  9

  Industry/Commerce

  [Takefu Knife Village](/e/e6611.html)

  Workshop, shop and museum dedicated to knives.

  7
* [](/e/e6609.html)

  10

  Castle

  [Echizen Ono Castle](/e/e6609.html)

  Reconstructed hilltop castle.

  5

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Fukui](e6600.html)

[Getting to and around Fukui](e6603.html)
[See access info](e6603.html)