---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6368.html
title: Shiraito Falls
description: Visitor guide for the Shiraito Falls, a something something falls in the Fujinomiya area on western slopes of Mount Fuji.
keywords: shiraito, falls, waterfalls, waterfall, fujinomiya, mount, fuji
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 391
char_count: 2630
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:28:41
---

Shiraito Falls

The Shiraito Falls (白糸の滝, Shiraito no Taki) are located in the southwestern foothills of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html). Ranked among the most beautiful waterfalls in Japan, the 150 meter wide cascade is fed by the volcano's spring water and flows off the edge of a 20 meter high cliff in thin white streams that resemble hanging threads of silk - hence its name. The base of the waterfall is easily accessible from the road via a walking trail in just a few minutes.

Several souvenir shops line the trail that leads down to the falls. Along the way, there are nice views of Otodome Falls, another thundering, 25 meter high column of water. The area is at its best in summer when the waterfalls are flush with the winter snow melt from Mount Fuji and the green foliage is at its fullest, and during the [autumn season](e2014.html) (usually from mid to late November) when the leaves change.

Otodome Falls

The [buses](e2015.html) between Shin-Fuji Station, Fujinomiya Station and the [Fuji Five Lakes](e6900.html) stop at the Shiraito Falls along the way. The one way trip from Kawaguchiko Station takes about 80 minutes and costs 2000 yen, and from Shin-Fuji Station it take about one hour and cost 1220 yen. However, there are only 3-4 buses per day.

More connections are provided by local buses that operate once or twice per hour between Fujinomiya Station and the Shiraito Falls (30 minutes, 710 yen one way).

[How to get to and around Fujinomiya](e6366.html)