---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6826.html
title: Flower and Lavender Fields
description: Visitor guide for the flower and lavender fields of Furano and Biei.
keywords: furano, biei, nakafurano, lavender, flower, flowers, field, fields, tomita, farm
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2121
char_count: 13911
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:31:47
---

Lavender fields at Farm Tomita

**Lavender** has been cultivated in [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html) since the 1940s. When the arrival of lower priced, imported lavender led to a decrease in demand for Hokkaido's lavender in the 60s and 70s, the local lavender's main function shifted from agricultural product to tourist attraction.

Nowadays, [Furano](e6825.html)'s lavender fields attract large numbers of visitors to the region every summer, when the plants are in full bloom. The majority of lavender usually starts blooming in late June and reaches its peak from around mid July to early August. Less numerous, later flowering varieties of lavender remain in bloom into mid August.

Many **other flowers** make [Furano](e6825.html) an attractive destination also outside of the lavender season. The viewing season takes place between June and September, although some flowers also bloom earlier and later than that. [Flowers](e2423.html) include rape blossoms, poppies and lupins from June, lilies from July and sunflowers, salvias and cosmos from August and September.

Poppy field in June

There are numerous flower fields of various sizes all across [Furano](e6825.html). The best spot to view the lavender is **Farm Tomita**, whose lavender and flower fields with the Tokachi mountain range as backdrop are spectacular. The popular farm is free to enter and besides the flower fields has cafes and shops that sell a wide range of lavender related products. The farm naturally gets rather busy during the peak season.

In 2008, Farm Tomita opened a second farm, **Lavender East** to the public. Located about four kilometers east of Farm Tomita, Lavender East has by far the most spacious of all lavender fields in Furano, covering 14 hectares. Besides a shop, cafe and observation deck, the farm offers paid 15 minute rides on the "Lavender Bus" through the lavender fields.

Lavender East's Lavender Bus

Another popular farm for lavender and other [flowers](e2423.html) is the **Flower Land Kamifurano**. The farm's hillside location affords beautiful views of the Tokachi mountain range in combination with the flower fields. Among the attractions are rides through the fields on tractor pulled carts and hands on experiences such as lavender cutting and flower pressing.

An attractive way to travel between [Furano](e6825.html), [Biei](e6828.html) and some of the lavender farms while enjoying the scenery, is the **Furano-Biei Norokko** train. The train operates on selected days during summer and stops at the temporarily constructed Lavender-Batake Station, a five minute walk from Farm Tomita.

The Furano-Biei Norokko train passes by Farm Tomita

Lavender and flower fields are spread across [Furano](e6825.html), and many of them are not easily accessible without private transportation. A [rental car](e2024.html) is the easiest way to get around. Alternatively, there are some [sightseeing buses](e6829.html) that visit some of the sights during the summer months.

### Farm Tomita

On selected days during summer, the [Furano-Biei Norokko trains](e6829.html) stop at the seasonally constructed "Lavender-Batake Station" (20 minutes, 320 yen from [Furano](e6825.html) or 35 minutes, 580 yen from [Biei](e6828.html)), from where the farm can be reached in a 5-10 minute walk. Farm Tomita is also served by some [sightseeing buses](e6829.html) from Furano and Asahikawa.

Outside of summer, access by public transportation is non-existent.

### Farm Tomita - Lavender East

Lavender East is located about four kilometers east of Farm Tomita, about an hour's walk or a 5-10 minute car ride away. Access by public transportation is not provided.

### Flower Land Kamifurano

Flower Land Kamifurano is located three kilometers uphill, a five minute [taxi](e2021.html) ride or about a 50-60 minute walk from Kamifurano Station (20 minutes, 470 yen from [Furano](e6825.html) or [Biei](e6828.html)).

[How to get to and around Furano](e6829.html)