---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6526.html
title: How to get to and around Saitama\: Access, Transportation and Orientation
description: How to get to and around Saitama.
keywords: saitama, access, orientation, transportation, omiya, directions, get there, train, bus
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1972
char_count: 12920
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:37:04
---

### How to get from Tokyo to Saitama

Multiple train lines run between [Tokyo](e2164.html) and [Saitama City](e6525.html). Of particular usefulness are the [JR Saikyo](e2373.html), [JR Keihin-Tohoku](e2371.html), JR Takasaki, JR Utsunomiya and [JR Shonan-Shinjuku](e2374.html) lines, which connect Saitama's main transportation hub Omiya Station with major stations in central Tokyo.

#### By JR Takasaki or Utsunomiya Line (Ueno-Tokyo Line)

[Tokyo Station](e3037.html) and [Saitama](e6525.html)'s Omiya Station are connected by frequent trains along the JR Takasaki and JR Utsunomiya lines (30 minutes, 580 yen one way), also known as JR Ueno-Tokyo Line. The trains also stop at Shinagawa and Ueno stations. The parallel running [JR Keihin-Tohoku Line](e2371.html) requires almost twice the time because it serves more stations along the way.

#### By JR Shonan Shinjuku Line or Saikyo Line

Frequent trains along the [JR Shonan-Shinjuku Line](e2374.html) and rapid trains along the [JR Saikyo Line](e2373.html) travel from Tokyo's [Shinjuku Station](e3011.html) to Saitama's Omiya Station in about 30 minutes (490 yen one way). The trains also stop at [Shibuya](e3007.html) and [Ikebukuro](e3038.html) stations.

#### By shinkansen

The [shinkansen](e2018.html) takes 25 minutes to reach Omiya from Tokyo Station. The one way fare is 1670 yen for an unreserved seats or around 3000 yen for a reserved seat. As such, it is not recommended except to JR pass holders.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](/e/e2196.html).

[Saitama](e6525.html) is served by several train lines that run through the city and converge at its main transportation hub, **Omiya Station**. From here, the Tobu Noda Line offers a convenient way to get to many of Saitama's tourist attractions. There is also the New Shuttle which runs north from Omiya Station, most notably providing transport to [The Railway Museum](e6527.html).

[Suica and Pasmo prepaid cards](e2359_002.html), as well as [eight IC cards](e2359_003.html) from other major cities of Japan, can be used on all trains in Saitama City.

Good walkers can also explore the city on foot: Omiya Park is about a 20-30 minute walk northeast of Omiya Station. An additional 15 minute walk in the same direction takes you to the [Bonsai Village](e6528.html). [The Railway Museum](e6527.html) is a 30 minute walk north of Omiya Station or about 20 minutes west of Omiya Park.