---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6404.html
title: Museum of Aeronautical Sciences
description: Visitor guide for the Narita Museum of Aeronautical Sciences.
keywords: narita, airport, museum, viewpoint, viewpoints, helicopter, plane, planes, helicopters, view, points, aeronautical, science
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2071
char_count: 13567
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:17:54
---

The Museum of Aeronautical Sciences (航空科学博物館, Kōkū Kagaku Hakubutsukan) is an aviation museum located just outside of [Narita Airport](e2027.html) at the southern end of its main runway. The museum is of interest to both plane enthusiasts and non-enthusiasts alike with lots of aircraft on display, as well as simulators and other hands-on activities.

Inside the museum you can see full scale replicas of historic planes and components of modern planes such as the landing gear and engine of a Boeing 747. You can also try piloting a plane at one of the museum's life sized simulators.

Additionally, the museum's third floor has an **outdoor observation deck** with a view of the southern end of [Narita Airport](e2027.html)'s runway, while the fourth floor has a restaurant, and the fifth floor houses an indoor observatory modeled after a flight control tower. Both observation areas and the restaurant have good views of planes taking off and landing.

The museum's rooftop viewing deck and outdoor exhibits

On a yard in front of the museum there are over a dozen aircraft on display, predominantly smaller propeller planes and helicopters. Some of the aircraft can be entered.

Besides the museum's observation decks, there are multiple public **viewpoints** around the airport from where you can watch the action on the runway. The Sakura no Oka and Hikoki no Oka observation areas are located near the southern end of the runway close to the museum, while the Sakura no Yama observation area is at the northern end. Observation decks are also found on each of the [airport](e2027.html)'s terminal buildings.

Sakura no Yama

### Museum of Aeronautical Sciences

#### From the airport

The ride from the airport to the museum takes about 15 minutes, and there are two types of [buses](e2015.html) to select from: JR buses and Narita Airport Transport buses. JR buses depart from terminal 1 and terminal 2 about once every 1-3 hours, while buses by Narita Airport Transport depart about hourly from terminal 2, but less than half of them stop right at the museum (except on weekends and holidays when all stop at the museum); the other buses serve only the "Nanbu Butsuryu" (南部物流) bus stop from where it is still a 5-10 minute walk to the museum. The bus fare is 240 yen one way for JR buses and 220 yen for the other buses.

#### From the city center

Two JR buses per hour connect Narita Station with the Museum of Aeronautical Sciences (30 minutes, 570 yen one way).

### Observation areas

A small number of Narita Airport Transport buses connect Narita Airport with the Sakura no Yama observation area. The Hikoki no Oka observation area can be reached in a 15 minute walk from the Museum of Aeronautical Sciences, while the Sakura no Oka observation area is another 10 minute walk from there.

By taxi, it costs about 2500 yen to get from the airport to the Sakura no Oka or Hikoki no Oka observation areas and about 1500 yen to get to the Sakura no Yama observation area. All three observation areas offer free parking lots.

[How to get to and around Narita](e6402.html)