---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6528.html
title: Omiya Bonsai Village
description: Visitor guide for the Omiya Bonsay Village in Saitama, an area which has many bonsai nurseries and the Omiya Bonsai Art Museum
keywords: saitama, bonsai, nursery, nurseries, art, museum, omiya, village, potted, miniature, tree
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1923
char_count: 12544
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:37:00
---

A bonsai nursery in the Bonsai Village

The Omiya Bonsai Village (大宮盆栽村, Ōmiya Bonsaimura) in [Saitama City](e6525.html) is a tranquil neighborhood two train stations north of Omiya Station. Multiple [bonsai](e2097.html) nurseries and a superb bonsai art museum are situated along the district's peaceful paths. Private houses in the area typically have a collection of bonsai in their [gardens](e2099.html).

The formation of this village dates back to 1925. Due to the adverse effects of the [Great Kanto Earthquake of 1923](/a/earthquake/), bonsai nurseries and garden industry workers in central [Tokyo](e2164.html) had to look for an alternative location; they chose to relocate to Omiya because of the clean water, available land and favorable soil found here.

Forest-style bonsai

An excellent addition to the village in 2010 was the **Omiya Bonsai Art Museum**, which educates visitors about the various aspects of [bonsai](e2097.html). English audio guides and well written English descriptions explain clearly how to appreciate the art form and highlight key points to take note of. The museum also exhibits the various styles of bonsai and accompanying elements such as pots and stones.

About half a dozen **bonsai nurseries** are found across the village. They welcome walk-in visitors, but prohibit photography. They sell wide selections of [bonsai](e2097.html) as well as relevant gardening tools. Nursery owners are generally happy to answer questions and appreciate any interest shown in bonsai. The nurseries and bonsai museum are closed on Thursdays.

The Bonsai House of Four Seasons has a free rest area for visitors to the village

The Omiya Bonsai Village is located between Omiya Koen Station (5 minutes, 160 yen one way from Omiya Station by Tobu Noda Line) and Toro Station (5 minutes, 150 yen one way from Omiya Station by JR Utsunomiya Line).

[How to get to and around Saitama](e6526.html)