---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6915.html
title: Oshino Hakkai
description: Visitor guide for Oshino Hakkai, eight clear springwater ponds at the foot of Mount Fuji.
keywords: mount, fuji, oshino, hakkai, hakai, springs, pond, ponds
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2214
char_count: 15125
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:27:59
---

Oshino Hakkai (忍野八海) is a touristy set of eight ponds in Oshino, a small village in the [Fuji Five Lake](e6900.html) region, located between [Lake Kawaguchiko](e6906.html) and [Lake Yamanakako](e6908.html) on the site of a former sixth lake that dried out several hundred years ago. The eight ponds are fed by snow melt from the slopes of nearby [Mount Fuji](e2172.html) that filters down the mountain through porous layers of lava for over 80 years, resulting in very clear spring water that is revered by the locals.

Next to one pond, visitors can drink the cool water straight from the source. The ponds are quite deep and have interesting freshwater plant life and large fish. Although the ponds have been developed into tourist attractions and can become quite crowded with visitors, they have a pleasant atmosphere as long as you do not expect untouched nature.

You will find many restaurants, souvenir shops and food vendors around the ponds which sell vegetables, sweets, pickles, crafts and other local products. Some operate small outdoor grills to attract shoppers with the alluring smells of roasted sweet potato and toasted rice crackers.

Hannoki Bayashi Shiryokan

A small [open air museum](e2421.html), the **Hannoki Bayashi Shiryokan**, surrounds Oshino Hakkai's largest pond and costs a small admission fee. It contains a traditional thatched roof farmhouse that can be entered and displays various farming tools, household items and [samurai](e2127.html) weapons.

During the [cherry blossom](e6920.html) season, which usually takes place in mid to late April (typically a few days later than around [Lake Kawaguchiko](e6906.html)), don't miss taking a walk along the nearby cherry tree-lined river with views of the blossoms in combination with [Mount Fuji](e2172.html).

Pleasant nearby river

Roughly every other [bus](e2015.html) between Kawaguchiko Station and Gotemba (approximately one per hour) makes a small detour via Oshino Hakkai (see [timetable](/bus/gotemba.html)). Furthermore, the [Fujikko tourist buses](e6905.html) also make a stop at Oshino Hakkai. Get off at the "Oshino Hakkai" bus stop.

[How to get to and around the Fuji Five Lakes](e6905.html)