---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6351.html
title: Tokyo to Shizuoka\: How to get to and around Shizuoka
description: How to get to and around Shizuoka City.
keywords: shizuoka, access, orientation, transportation, bus, train, directions, get there
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1703
char_count: 11666
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:27:05
---

From/To:

TokyoOsakaKyotoNagoyaFuji Five Lakes

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

[Tokyo](e2164.html) and [Shizuoka](e6350.html) are connected with each other by the [JR Tokaido Shinkansen](e2018_tokaido.html). The ride takes about 60 minutes by [Hikari](e2018_tokaido.html) or 90 minutes by [Kodama](e2018_tokaido.html). [Nozomi](e2018_tokaido.html) trains do not stop at Shizuoka Station. The regular one way fare is 5940 yen by unreserved seat or around 6500 yen by reserved seat. The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) fully covers both the Hikari and Kodama trains.

[Book Now](/rail.html?origin=Tokyo&destination=Shizuoka)

The one way trip between [Tokyo](e2164.html) and [Shizuoka](e6350.html) by [highway bus](e2366.html) takes about three hours and costs 3300 yen one way. Some buses also serve [Shimizu](e6354.html) Station.

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

By [local trains](e2016.html), the one way trip between [Tokyo](e2164.html) and [Shizuoka](e6350.html) takes about three hours and typically involves a transfer at Atami Station. The regular fare is 3410 yen.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

[Shizuoka](e6350.html) is centered around JR Shizuoka Station along the [JR Tokaido Shinkansen](e2018_tokaido.html) and the JR Tokaido Line. Local trains along the JR Tokaido Line run frequently between Shizuoka Station and the secondary city center around Shimizu Station (10 minutes, 240 yen one way). The two city centers are, furthermore, connected by a parallel running train line operated by Shizuoka Railways (Shizutetsu) between Shin-Shizuoka and Shin-Shimizu Stations (20 minutes 350 yen one way).

Shizuoka also has an extensive [bus](e2015.html) network, operated by Shizutetsu, that provides access to attractions not along the train lines. A combined 1-day pass for the Shizuoka Railway and most of the convenient Shizutetsu buses is available for 1600 yen. Water buses provide transportation around [Shimizu Port](e6354.html).

[Mount Fuji Shizuoka Airport](e2434.html) is a minor [airport](e2365.html) 30 kilometers west of the city center. [Buses](e2015.html) connect the airport to Shizuoka Station (55 minutes, 1200 yen one way). The bus timetable is adjusted to flight arrivals and departures.