---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6950.html
title: Kofu Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Kofu in Yamanashi Prefecture, an area with various wineries, historical sites and hot springs
keywords: kofu, travel, guide, sightseeing, tourist, tourism, visitor, information, yamanashi, city, wine, winery, wineries, grape, grapes
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 395
char_count: 3102
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:48:54
---

Kofu (甲府, Kōfu) is the largest city and capital of [Yamanashi Prefecture](/list/e1217.html). The city is located in a large natural basin surrounded by mountains on four sides with [Mount Fuji](e2172.html) in the south. The region receives substantial amounts of sunshine, which has contributed to its accolade as the birthplace and center of Japanese [wine](e6954.html) production. Today the area has various wineries open to the public, many of which offer tours and wine tasting. Kofu and the surrounding areas are also known for [fruits](e2347.html), with grapes being especially famous.

Wine and fruits aside, Kofu has a rich history as the old capital of the Kai domain and home of Takeda Shingen, the domain's ruler and one of the foremost challengers for reuniting the country towards the end of the [period of warring states](e2134.html). A master tactician in warfare, Takeda ultimately died before a battle with Oda Nobunaga that may have changed the course of Japanese history. Today many sites exist in the area relating to the Takeda clan.

* [](/e/e6952.html)

  1

  Nature

  [Shosenkyo Gorge](/e/e6952.html)

  Nice gorge famous for autumn colors.

  3.9

  

  164
* [](/e/e6957.html)

  2

  Shrine

  [Takeda Shrine](/e/e6957.html)

  Shrine dedicated to Kofu's most celebrated samurai

  3.2

  

  15
* [](/e/e6958.html)

  3

  Castle

  [Kofu Castle](/e/e6958.html)

  Ruined grounds of the former castle.

  3.0

  

  20
* [](/e/e6955.html)

  4

  Temple

  [Kai-Zenkoji Temple](/e/e6955.html)

  Large temple modeled after Nagano's Zenkoji.

  11
* [](/e/e6954.html)

  5

  Food and Drink

  [Katsunuma Wineries](/e/e6954.html)

  The most famous area for wine making in Japan.

  7
* [](/e/e6959.html)

  6

  Onsen

  [Hottarakashi Onsen](/e/e6959.html)

  Hot spring with views of Mount Fuji

  7
* [](/e/e6956.html)

  7

  Temple

  [Daizenji Temple](/e/e6956.html)

  Old temple nicknamed Grape Temple.

  6
* [](/e/e6951.html)

  8

  Hiking

  [Nishizawa Keikoku](/e/e6951.html)

  Beautiful valley and hiking destination.

  5

Side Trips from Kofu

* [](/e/e6900.html)

  1

  [Fuji Five Lakes•](/e/e6900.html)

  Lake resort at the foot of Mount Fuji.

  4.1

  

  2,734

[

Kofu Museum Guide](/e/e6960.html)

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Kofu](e6950.html)

[Getting to and around Kofu](e6953.html)
[See access info](e6953.html)