---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6715.html
title: Rusutsu Ski Resort
description: Visitor guide for Rusutsu Ski Resort in Hokkaido, Japan.
keywords: rusutsu, rutsutsu, hokkaido, ski, resort, onsen, snow, snowboard
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 561
char_count: 4094
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:47:09
---

Rusutsu Resort (ルスツ) is considered one of the best [ski](e2262.html) resorts in [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html). It has a large ski area that covers three mountains, each having a variety of long runs with a good mix of groomed trails, great powder and tree runs. It is located close to [Lake Toya (Toyako)](e6725.html) and is just on the other side of Mount Yotei from [Niseko](e6720.html).

At the base of the ski slopes stand two large hotels, the [Rusutsu Resort Hotel](https://www.agoda.com/rusutsu-resort-hotel-convention/hotel/niseko-jp.html?site_id=25544) and the highrise [Westin Rusutsu Resort](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/the-westin-rusutsu-resort.html?aid=371183). Several small [pensions](e2025_pension.html) can be found in the nearby town center of Rusutsu. Besides skiing, Rusutsu Resort offers numerous other attractions, including restaurants and shops, pool facilities and [hot spring](e2292.html) baths. Summer activities include [golf](e2082.html) and an [amusement park](e2067.html) with over 50 attractions, including seven roller coasters.

Rusutsu Resort

A foreigner-friendly ski resort with good powder and a variety of long runs makes Rusutsu one of the best ski resorts in Hokkaido. Lift ticket prices are lowered during the shoulder seasons and if purchased online.

Season\*

**Late November to late March**  
(November 29, 2025 to March 31, 2026)

Lifts

18 lifts

Tickets

Full day
16,200 yen

Half day
14,000 yen

Nighter
3,800 yen

Access

Car
90 minutes by bus from Sapporo or [New Chitose Airport](e2435.html). 30 minutes by car from [Niseko](e6720.html) Ski Resort.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

### From Sapporo

A free daily shuttle bus operates between Sapporo ([how to get to Sapporo](e5306.html)) and the resort during the ski season. Reservations are required by 3pm of the previous day.

During most of the ski season, Donan Bus and Hokkaido Access Network operate multiple buses daily between [Sapporo](e2163.html) and Rusutsu Resort. Buses continue on to [Lake Toya](e6725.html) (Donan Bus) and [Niseko](e6720.html) (Hokkaido Access Network). The fares are drastically different between the two companies, with Donan Bus charging 2600 yen ([book online](https://willer-travel.com/en/bus_search/hokkaido/sapporo/hokkaido/rusutsu/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184)) for the one way trip, while Hokkaido Access Network charges 5500 yen. Reservations are required.

Outside of winter, only Donan Bus operates buses between [Sapporo](e2163.html) and [Lake Toya](e6725.html), which stop at Rusutsu along the way.

### From New Chitose Airport

During the ski season, Hokkaido Access Network operates buses between [Sapporo](e2163.html)'s [New Chitose Airport](e2435.html) and [Niseko](e6720.html), which stop at Rusutsu along the way. The one way trip takes about two hours and cost 5500 yen. Reservations are required.

### From Niseko

Donan Bus operates [buses](e2015.html) roughly every 2-3 hours between Rusutsu and Kutchan Station near [Niseko](e6720.html) around the year. The one way trip takes about one hour and costs 1100 yen. Note that ski buses operating between [New Chitose Airport](e2435.html) and Niseko via Rusutsu cannot be used for travel just between Rusutsu and Niseko.

### From Lake Toya (Toyako)

Around the year, Donan Bus operates buses every 2-4 hours between [Lake Toya](e6725.html) and [Sapporo](e2163.html) which stop in Rusutsu along the way. The one way trip between Lake Toya and Rusutsu takes 45 minutes and costs 1400 yen. Reservations are required and can be made via [Willer](https://willer-travel.com/en/bus_search/hokkaido/toyako/hokkaido/rusutsu/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184).