---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6437.html
title: Beaches on the Boso Peninsula
description: A list of good beaches on the Boso Peninsula.
keywords: beach, beaches, boso, peninsula, hanto
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1102
char_count: 7283
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:36:00
---

The beaches of the [Boso Peninsula](e6430.html) make for a popular and relatively easy daytrip or overnight journey from [Tokyo](e2164.html). The eastern coast faces the open Pacific Ocean, making it one of Japan's premier surfing destinations. Meanwhile, the western coast offers calmer waters and views of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html) when visibility is very good.

Beach huts and rental shops are typically open only during the official swimming season which typically lasts from mid July through August. These places provide beachgoers with showers, changing rooms, shaded rest areas, food and drinks. Surfing is a popular activity all year round, and there are a number of surf shops especially along the Kujukurihama Coast. The surfing event of the [2020 Tokyo Olympics](e2260.html) was held at Tsurigasaki Beach beside [Ichinomiya Beach](#ichinomiya) on the Boso Peninsula. Lifeguards patrol the beaches during the summer.

[Snorkeling](e2424_snorkeling.html) is not a popular activity on the Boso Peninsula except around the islands of [Okinoshima](#okinoshima) and [Niemonjima](#niemonjima) where small fish can be seen. Clamming, on the other hand, is a popular activity from spring to early summer, especially along the Kujukurihama Coast.

### Kujukurihama Coast

The Kujukurihama Coast on the eastern side of the [Boso Peninsula](e6430.html) is an approximately 60 kilometer long, sandy coastline lined with numerous beaches. Surfing and body boarding are popular activities along the coast, even in the winter. Below are some of the more popular beaches along Kujukurihama.

* 

  Tonoshita Beach

  20 minutes by car or taxi from Yokoshiba Station

  Tonoshita Beach is a wide beach with shallow waters that stretch on for a distance. The beach is popular with families, and the waters are suitable for children to swim. Beach huts and rental shops provide warm showers and beach equipment as well as food and drinks. Hasunuma Water Garden, a popular water park with lots of slides, is located beside the beach (admission fee applies).
* 

  Katakai Beach•

  20 minutes by bus from Togane Station, followed by a five minute walk

  Katakai Beach lies in the middle of the Kujukurihama Coast and is one of the most visited beaches in the area. Surfing is very popular here in addition to swimming and body boarding. Numerous beach huts and rental shops line the shore, and public facilities include toilets and outdoor showers. One of the food specialties at Katakai is grilled hamaguri clam which is sold at almost all beach huts.
* 

  Ichinomiya Beach

  Ten minutes by bus from Kazusa Ichinomiya Station

  Ichinomiya Beach is a popular surfing beach at the southern end of the Kujukurihama Coast. Digging for clams is also an activity popular with families at the expansive beach in addition to swimming and sunbathing. There are numerous beach huts and rental shops offering beachgoers food, drinks and rental equipment. Tsurigasaki Beach, the surfing venue of the [2020 Tokyo Olympics](e2260.html), is beside Ichinomiya Beach.

### South Boso Peninsula

The southern coast offers smaller beaches in protected inlets with calmer waters.

* 

  Onjuku Beach

  Seven minute walk from Onjuku Station

  Onjuku Beach is a popular, crescent-shaped beach located in Onjuku. Swimming, body boarding and surfing are popular activities here. Beach huts and rental shops line the shore and public facilities include toilets and outdoor showers.
* 

  Moriya Beach

  Ten minute walk from Kazusa Okitsu Station

  Moriya Beach lies in a cove and has relatively calm and clear waters suitable for children and for swimming. There are beach huts and rental shops offering beachgoers food, drinks, rental equipment and paid showers. Toilets are free to use.
* 

  Niemonjima Island

  15 minute walk from Futomi Station, then a short ferry ride to the island (1350 yen for a round trip)

  Niemonjima Island is made up of one large island and a number of smaller rock outcrops in the sea. The ferry crossing takes less than five minutes, and there is a single store on the island which includes a restaurant and rentals. Swimming and [snorkeling](e2424_snorkeling.html) are popular in the small eddies and waters around the island. There is a walking course around the island which can be completed in less than 30 minutes. Note that there are no lifeguards on the island.
* 

  Minami Chikura Beach

  20 minute walk from Chikura Station

  Minami Chikura Beach is towards the southern tip of the Boso Peninsula. Swimming, body boarding and surfing are popular activities here. Beach huts offer food and drinks, while public facilities include toilets and outdoor showers. Parking is free for those arriving by car.
* 

  Nemoto Beach

  25 minutes by car or taxi from Tateyama Station

  Nemoto Beach is a beach with a campsite. Campers can drive their camper vans or cars right onto the beach and set up their tents beside. The site is very popular in the summer as it combines camping with beach activities. Barbecue pits are allowed on the beach but there are no rental shops nor beach huts. Public facilities include toilets and outdoor showers. [Izu Oshima](e8252.html), the largest of the Izu Islands can be seen from the beach when the weather is clear.
* 

  Hasama Beach

  25 minutes by bus from Tateyama Station

  The 200 meter long Hasama Beach faces Tateyama Bay on the western side of the [Boso Peninsula](e6430.html). The clear and shallow waters have gentle waves, making them suitable for swimming, and there is also a saltwater pool for kids nearby. Beach huts and rental shops line the shore, providing beachgoers with food, drinks and rental equipment. The Miura Peninsula located across the water can be seen when visibility is good.
* 

  Okinoshima Island

  12 minutes by bus from Tateyama Station, followed by a 25 minute walk

  Okinoshima Island is a small island connected to the mainland by a sandbar not far from [Tateyama](e6434.html). [Snorkeling](e2424_snorkeling.html) and swimming are popular activities around the island, and children can enjoy hunting for the insects that live on the rocks by the shore. Many beachgoers set up their beach tents on the sandbar connecting the island with the mainland while others set up theirs on the sidewalk along the parking area. There are rental shops and limited public toilets near the island. Parking is free for those arriving by car.

Some of the beaches are within walking distance of the nearest train station, while others require a [bus](e2015.html) or [taxi](e2021.html) ride. [Parking](e2024.html) lots are found near many of the beaches. Most are paid with daily rates starting from 1000 yen.

[How to get to and around the Boso Peninsula](e6431.html)


[## The Basics about Overtourism in Japan

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e6437.html+report+topstory+255+338+0+/news/overtourism.html)

[## Four spots not to miss on the Boso Peninsula

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e6437.html+report+chiba+5+15+0+/ad/boso-activities/)

[## Tokyo to Osaka, But Not the Usual Way

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e6437.html+report+jrkintetsu+1+11+0+/ad/jr-kintetsu-pearl-route/)

[## Where to stay on the Boso Peninsula

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e6437.html+report+chiba+3+14+0+/ad/boso-hotels/)

[## Our 2025 Travel Highlights

From Our Staff

](/link.html?/e/e6437.html+report+topstory+300+391+0+/news/0061.html)

[## A surfer's paradise in Ichinomiya

Chotto Zeitaku Japan

](/link.html?/e/e6437.html+report+topstory+73+130+0+/chottozeitaku/190809.html)

Explore[Boso Peninsula](/e/e6430.html)

:   + [Mount Nokogiriyama](/e/e6433.html)
    + [Tateyama](/e/e6434.html)
    + [Mother Farm](/e/e6432.html)
    + [Kamogawa Seaworld](/e/e6436.html)
    + [Boso Flower Line](/e/e6435.html)

By Interest
:   * [Boso Beach Guide](/e/e6437.html)

Access
:   * [Access and Orientation](/e/e6431.html)

[## The Basics about Overtourism in Japan

Travel News

](/link.html?/e/e6437.html+report+topstory+255+338+0+/news/overtourism.html)

[## Four spots not to miss on the Boso Peninsula

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e6437.html+report+chiba+5+15+0+/ad/boso-activities/)

[## Tokyo to Osaka, But Not the Usual Way

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e6437.html+report+jrkintetsu+1+11+0+/ad/jr-kintetsu-pearl-route/)

[## Where to stay on the Boso Peninsula

Sponsored Story

](/link.html?/e/e6437.html+report+chiba+3+14+0+/ad/boso-hotels/)

[## Our 2025 Travel Highlights

From Our Staff

](/link.html?/e/e6437.html+report+topstory+300+391+0+/news/0061.html)

[## A surfer's paradise in Ichinomiya

Chotto Zeitaku Japan

](/link.html?/e/e6437.html+report+topstory+73+130+0+/chottozeitaku/190809.html)

[## Inubousaki/Sotobo Hatsuhinode Limited Express

Last month

1reply](/forum/quereadisplay.html?0+184796)
[## Train to Nokogiriyama

March 2023

6replies](/forum/quereadisplay.html?0+177260)
[## Visiting Nokogiri on arrival in Narita

November 2022

3replies](/forum/quereadisplay.html?0+176318)
[## JR Tokyo 1-Day ticket

November 2019

3replies](/forum/quereadisplay.html?0+171173)
[## Mt. Nokogiriyama

September 2019

4replies](/forum/quereadisplay.html?0+170008)