---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6752.html
title: Noboribetsu Hot Spring Baths
description: A list of hot spring baths in Noboribetsu.
keywords: noboribetsu, hot, spring, springs, spa, bath, public, daytrip
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2221
char_count: 14846
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:49:26
---

[Noboribetsu](e6750.html) is [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html)'s most famous [hot spring](e2292.html) resort, offering as many as eleven different kinds of thermal waters, that are considered among Japan's best and most effective.

The resort town consists of numerous (mostly large sized) [ryokan](e2029.html) and hotels with hot spring baths. Several of them open their baths during daytime to non-staying guests for typically 1,000 to 2,000 yen. In addition, there is one [public bath house](e2074.html) located in the center of town.

Below is a list of some of Noboribetsu's baths, all of which are gender separated:

* 

  Daiichi Takimotokan•••

  Daytime Hours: 9:00 to 21:00 (entry until 18:00)  
  Daytime Admission: 2,250 yen (1,700 yen after 16:00)  
  Overnight Stay: From 20,000 yen per person including 2 meals

  The spacious baths of the Takimotokan are among Japan's best modern indoor hot spring baths, if not the best. What sets them apart from the rest is not only the number of pools but also the fact that they are fed by as many as five different hot spring sources with water varying in acidity, mineral contents and health benefits.
* 

  Noboribetsu Grand Hotel•

  Daytime Hours: 7:00 to 10:00 (entry until 9:00), 12:30 to 20:00 (from 14:30 on Mon and Thu, entry until 19:00)  
  Daytime Admission: 2,000 yen  
  Overnight Stay: From 30,000 yen per person including 2 meals

  This hotel's attractive and spacious indoor baths feature three different types of hot spring water (sulfur, salt and iron). The main attraction, however, is the outdoor bath that looks onto a beautiful garden with a man made waterfall.
* 

  Hotel Yumoto Noboribetsu•

  Daytime Hours: 13:00 to 20:00 (entry until 19:00)  
  Daytime Admission: 1,400 yen  
  Overnight Stay: From 30,000 yen per person including 2 meals

  As many as four different types of hot spring water can be enjoyed in the somewhat darkish indoor baths of this large ryokan. But unless you overnight here, there are few reasons to select its baths over the Takimotokan's. Apart from the conventional pools there is a sauna, lying baths, waterfalls and a small outdoor bath without views.
* 

  Noboribetsu Sekisuitei•

  Daytime Hours: 11:00 to 19:00 (entry until 18:00)  
  Daytime Admission: 1,200 yen  
  Overnight Stay: From 20,000 yen per person including 2 meals

  Daytime visitors to this large ryokan get access to two baths that are located in two different towers of the complex. The baths offer only one type of water, but are very spacious and attractive with views onto the forested mountain slope. Besides conventional pools there are saunas, jacuzzis and large pot shaped baths.
* 

  Sagiriyu Public Bath

  Hours: 9:00 to 21:00 (entry until 20:30)  
  Admission: 500 yen

  The Sagiriyu is the only [public bath house](e2074.html) in central Noboribetsu Onsen. All its baths are indoor and much smaller than the baths in the above listed ryokan. Nevertheless, they are bright and attractive and seem to be popular among the locals. The baths feature two types of water in three pools, as well as a sauna.
* 

  Noboribetsu Manseikaku

  Daytime Hours: 7:00 to 9:30, 13:30 to 20:00 (entry until 18:00)  
  Daytime Admission: 1,100 yen  
  Overnight Stay: From 18,000 yen per person including 2 meals

  This large ryokan complex comes with large, but somewhat dark and aged indoor and outdoor baths. Besides the conventional baths, that feature one type of hot spring water, there is a jacuzzi and a sauna.
* 

  Kashotei Hanaya

  Daytime Hours: 11:00 to 14:00 (entry until 13:30)  
  Daytime Admission: 1,000 yen  
  Overnight Stay: From 20,000 yen per person including 2 meals

  This [ryokan](e2029.html) at the entrance to the hot spring town is considerably smaller than the above listed complexes. And so are its baths, which feature one small indoor and outdoor pool without views and one type of sulfuric water.

Noboribetsu's hot spring town is a 15 minute [bus](e2015.html) ride from JR Noboribetsu Station (450 yen one way, 1-2 buses per hour). The hot spring town itself is small and walkable.

[How to get to and around Noboribetsu](e6753.html)