---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6781.html
title: Daisetsu Kogen Onsen
description: Visitor guide for Daisetsu Kogen Onsen, one of the bases from where hikers can explore Hokkaido's Daisetsuzan National Park.
keywords: daisetsuzan, daisetsu, kogen, onsen, hiking, autumn, fall, color, leaf, leaves, colors
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 665
char_count: 4575
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:13:10
---

Daisetsu Kogen Onsen (大雪高原温泉, Daisetsu Kōgen Onsen) is one of multiple bases from where [Daisetsuzan National Park](e6775.html) can be explored. Located at 1260 meters above sea level, the small, remote base on the eastern side of the national park consists of just a single lodge with [hot spring](e2292.html) baths and is connected to the main road by a ten kilometer, unpaved road.

Daisetsu Kogen Onsen is the trailhead of a popular, circular [hiking](e2427_where.html) trail through a pond-dotted highland that offers some of the most spectacular [autumn colors](e2014.html) in all of Japan - usually best in the second half of September. Because the area is densely populated by brown bears, hikers need to attend a short lecture at the bear information center before setting off. Walking the entire trail takes about five hours and requires proper hiking shoes. Eating is allowed only in a few designated areas to keep bears away from the trail.

Lecture at the bear information center

A separate hiking trail leads from Daisetsu Kogen Onsen to Mount Midoridake (3 hours one way), from where well prepared hikers can continue hiking into the vast interior of the [Daisetsuzan mountains](e6775.html).

Due to the long winters, the accommodation at Daisetsu Kogen Onsen is open for only about a third of the year from mid June to mid October (it will remain closed in 2025 due to lack of workers). It offers 16 simple tatami rooms that get booked out far in advance during the [autumn color](e2014.html) season. Rates start at around 16,000 yen per night and person, including dinner and breakfast. The accommodation's [hot spring](e2292.html) bath can also be used by non-staying guests between 10:30 and 16:00 for 900 yen.

Spectacular autumn colors along the circular hiking trail

Daisetsu Kogen Onsen is accessible from mid June to mid October via a ten kilometer unpaved road that forks off National Route 273 around Lake Taisetsuko. The unpaved road is closed to regular traffic for about ten days during the peak of the [autumn color](e2014.html) season, which usually takes place in the second half of September (not observed in 2025). Shuttle buses operate during that period, instead. Daisetsu Kogen Onsen is not accessible during the long winter season from mid October to mid June.

### By bus

Staying guests at Daisetsu Kogen Onsen's only accommodation can use a free bus service that departs [Sounkyo](e6777.html) twice per day ([how to get to Sounkyo](e6777.html)).

Otherwise, Daisetsu Kogen Onsen does not enjoy any access by [public transportation](e627.html) for most of the year. Only during the road closure in autumn, there are about six [bus](e2015.html) connections per day from [Sounkyo](e6777.html) via the "Lakesite" parking lot at Lake Taisetsuko to Kogen Onsen (60 minutes, 1750 yen one way, [how to get to Sounkyo](e6777.html)).

### By car

During the road closure in autumn, motorists can park their [car](e2024.html) at the temporary "Lakesite" parking lot at Lake Taisetsuko, from where shuttle buses operate to Kogen Onsen roughly every 30 minutes between 6:30 and 12:30. In the opposite direction, the [buses](e2015.html) depart Kogen Onsen until around 16:00. The bus ride costs 1250 yen one way and takes about half an hour. Outside of the road closure period, motorists can use parking lots at Daisetsu Kogen Onsen.

[How to get to and around Daisetsuzan National Park](e6779.html)