---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6157.html
title: Hagiyaki Pottery
description: Visitor guide for sites related to Hagiyaki Pottery, one of the most famous pottery in Japan.
keywords: hagi, yaki, hagiyaki, pottery
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 468
char_count: 3415
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:36:38
---

Hagiyaki Pottery (萩焼, Hagiyaki) is one of the most famous [pottery](e2329.html) types in Japan. The skills for making this craft was imported into Japan from the Korean peninsula in the early 1600s.

Hagiyaki flourished during the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1867) and has been highly prized for use in the [tea ceremony](e2096.html). The color of the vessels changes over time with use, as tea residuals enter the miniscule openings on the surface, a characteristic appreciated by tea enthusiasts.

Hagiyaki Pottery remains popular to this day. Many shops in town sell Hagiyaki tea wares, cup and bowls. Visitors can also view Hagiyaki Pottery at the museums listed below:

* 

  Yoshika Taibi Memorial Museum

  Hours: 10:00 to 16:00 (entry until 15:30)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 600 yen  
  Access: 5 minute walk from Yoshika Taibi Kinenkan-mae bus stop

  The Yoshika Taibi Memorial Museum is located in the outskirts of the city. It presents a large collection of valuable Hagiyaki Pottery, as well as ceramic pieces and paintings done by the artist and potter whom the museum is named after. In front of the museum is a workshop where visitors can observe the making of Hagiyaki, and a shop where Hagiyaki wares can be purchased.
* 

  Hagi Uragami Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Mondays (or following day if Mon is a [holiday](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission: 300 yen  
  Access: South of the preserved residences of the former castle town

  The Hagi Uragami Museum is housed in a modern building within short walking distance from the [former castle town](e6151.html). It exhibits art works of Hagiyaki Pottery, [ukiyo-e](e2291.html) and [contemporary art](e2115.html). On showcase are valuable Hagiyaki pieces, some of which have been preserved for centuries. Also on display are documents and films on Hagiyaki wares.
* 

  Hagiyaki Pottery Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 500 yen  
  Access: Across the entrance of the Hagi Castle Ruins

  This small museum is located on the second floor of a souvenir shop selling Hagiyaki Pottery. Valuable works of Hagiyaki, mostly from the 1600s, are on exhibit. The museum stands just outside the entrance gates of the [Hagi Castle Ruins](e6152.html).

[How to get to and around Hagi](e6155.html)