---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6912.html
title: Kubota Itchiku Art Museum
description: Visitor guide for the Kubota Itchiku Art Museum.
keywords: kubota, itchiku, art, museum, kimono, kawaguchiko
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2189
char_count: 14913
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:27:45
---

Kubota Itchiku (1917-2003) was the artist who revived the lost art of Tsujigahana silk dyeing, used to decorate elaborate [kimono](e2101.html) during the [Muromachi Period (1333-1573)](e2134.html). In his early twenties he was so inspired by a fragment of Tsujigahana textile exhibited at the Tokyo National Museum, that he devoted the rest of his life to recreating and mastering the labor-intensive silk dyeing technique.

An intriguing museum devoted to Kubota Itchiku stands in the wooded hills along the northern coast of [Lake Kawaguchiko](e6906.html). Exhibited are several of the artist's kimono creations, depicting themes of nature, the cosmos and the seasons. Also on display are parts of his unfinished masterpiece "Symphony of Light", a huge work comprised of 80 kimono that together form a picture of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html).

Part of the Symphony of Light

The museum's buildings and gardens are also fascinating. The buildings are made of Okinawan coral and limestone, while the main gallery is a massive timber frame construction. A waterfall and outdoor stage are located besides the museum's reception building where events are occasionally held. A unique tea room is located in the back of the gallery.

The extensive gardens, which were designed by Kubota Itchiku himself and stretch from the entrance gate far into the wooded slopes behind the museum buildings, are also worth a stroll. Artworks from various places in Asia and Africa are placed around the museum grounds.

The museum's main entrance gate

The [Omni Bus Red Line](e6905.html) (Kawaguchiko Line) operates frequently between Kawaguchiko Station and the Kubota Itchiku Bijutsukan bus stop, from where it is a short walk to the museum entrance. The bus ride takes 25 minutes.

[How to get to and around the Fuji Five Lakes](e6905.html)