---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6919.html
title: Fuji Shibazakura Festival
description: About the Fuji Shibazakura Festival, one of the best and most popular occasions nationwide to see shibazakura (phlox moss)
keywords: fuji, shibazakura, festival, motosu, lake, motosuko, matsuri, pink, phlox, moss
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2258
char_count: 15329
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:27:52
---

**In 2025, the festival was held from April 12 to May 25**

The Fuji Shibazakura Festival (富士芝桜まつり, Fuji Shibazakura Matsuri) is one of the best and most popular occasions nationwide to see [shibazakura](e2423.html) (pink moss or phlox moss in English). The venue of the festival, called Fuji Motosuko Resort, is located about three kilometers south of [Lake Motosuko](e6910.html) in the [Fuji Five Lakes](e6904.html) area, offering breathtaking views of vast fields of shibazakura, with [Mount Fuji](e2172.html) in the backdrop on clear days.

The festival is held typically from mid April to late May or early June. The best time to see the flowers varies from year to year but usually falls into the first three weeks of May. Approximately 800,000 stalks of shibazakura of five varieties are on display, producing delightful fields of pink, white and purple colors in different hues. Festival stalls selling pots of [pink moss](e2423.html), shibazakura-themed souvenirs, food and local produce complete the experience.

As the venue of the Fuji Shibazakura Festival can get quite crowded due to its popularity, it is advisable to avoid visiting on weekends or over the [Golden Week](e2282.html) holidays. Visiting early in the mornings is generally good to avoid congestion and for good visibility, although lighting for photos tends to be better in the afternoon.

### By Shibazakura Liner shuttle bus

A shuttle bus, called the Shibazakura Liner, connects Kawaguchiko Station and the Fuji Shibazakura Festival's venue roughly hourly in about 40 minutes during the festival period. A ticket costs 2800 yen (2750 yen if [purchased online](https://www2.fujikyu-travel.co.jp/DJWEB/TourDetail.aspx?tc=A41100SZ0001)) and combines a bus round trip with admission to the festival area.

### By regular bus

There is one regular [bus](e2015.html) every 1-2 hours between Fujisan Station, Kawaguchiko Station, Lake Motosuko and Shin-Fuji Station. During the festival period, some of these buses make a stop outside the festival venue at the Fuji Shibazakura Matsuri Kaijo bus stop. The ride takes 50 minutes and costs around 1450 yen from Kawaguchiko, or 75 minutes and around 1900 yen from Shin-Fuji.

### By bus tour from Tokyo

During the peak of the season, [Willer Express](https://willer-travel.com/en/tour/shibazakura/?aid=184) offers [1-day bus tours](https://willer-travel.com/en/tour/shibazakura/?aid=184) from Tokyo to the festival for 13,000 yen.

[How to get to and around the Fuji Five Lakes](e6905.html)