---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6806.html
title: Kawayu Onsen (Kawayu Hot Springs)
description: Visitor guide for Kawayu Onsen, a hot spring town in Hokkaido's Akan Mashu National Park.
keywords: kawayu, onsen, hot, spring, sulfur, spa, akan, hokkaido
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 421
char_count: 3028
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:48:11
---

Foot Bath

Kawayu Onsen (川湯温泉) is a small hot spring town inside [Akan Mashu National Park](e6800.html)'s eastern section. It is located near [Iozan](e6804.html) (Sulfur Mountain), between [Lake Mashu](e6802.html) and [Lake Kussharo](e6803.html). Kawayu's close proximity to the famous lakes makes it a popular base for visitors to the national park.

Kawayu's **onsen water** is especially acidic with a pH of 1.4. Visitors to Kawayu, who do not overnight at a [ryokan](e2029.html) with hot spring baths, can bathe at some of the ryokan that open their bathing facilities to non-staying guests during the day for typically 500 to 1500 yen. There is also a free public foot bath near the Eco Museum Center.

Kawayu Sumo Museum

Kawayu's **Eco Museum Center** offers general information on [Akan Mashu National Park](e6800.html) and Kawayu Onsen. Nearby, a pleasant walking path takes visitors though a mossy forested area. This path continues onto [Iozan](e6804.html) (Sulfur Mountain), 2.5 kilometers away.

Besides convenient location and [hot spring](e2292.html) waters, Kawayu offers a **Sumo Museum**, which is dedicated to the town's favourite son and biggest star, Taiho Koki. Taiho was a [sumo](e2080.html) wrestler who achieved the sport's highest title in 1961 at only 21 years of age. He held the record for most tournament victories for several decades.

Acidic hot spring water

Kawayu Onsen is a station on the JR Senmo Line, but it is located more than three kilometers outside of the town center. A bus operates between the station and the town center (10 minutes, 290 yen one way) and is timed with train departures and arrivals. It is also possible to walk from the station to town via [Iozan](e6804.html) in about one hour.

[How to get to and around Akan Mashu National Park](e6805.html)