---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6932.html
title: Snow Town Yeti
description: Visitor guide for Snow Town Yeti, one of two snow resorts on Mount Fuji.
keywords: snow, town, yeti, mt, mt., mount, fuji, snow, resort, snowboard, ski
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2188
char_count: 14583
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:45:55
---

Snow Town Yeti is a small [ski resort](e2262_resort.html) on the southern slope of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html). It is notable as one of only two ski resorts found on Mount Fuji (the other is [Fujiten](e6931.html)) and because it is one of the first snow resorts in Japan to open each season (around mid to late October with man-made snow).

The resort has three lifts (two of which run parallel to each other) and four runs. Its two main runs are each about 1000 meters long and well suited to beginner [skiers and snowboarders](e2262.html). The shorter (500 meter) secondary runs are steeper and narrower and closed during night skiing. The resort also has a small terrain park with jumps and rails, and a separate snow play area for kids, sledding and beginner skiers. Snow canons provide the resort with man-made snow when nature does not cooperate, which is not an uncommon occurrence.

Yeti Snow Resort

Yeti is a very small resort, consisting of three lifts and four runs along the base of Mount Fuji. It opens in mid to late October, albeit with artificial snow, making it the first ski resort to open in Japan each season.

Season\*

**Late October to late March**  
(October 24, 2025 to March 29, 2026)

Lifts

3 lifts

Tickets

Full day
4300 yen (5300 yen on weekends)

Half day
N/A

Nighter
2900 yen (3200 yen on weekends)

Access

Bus/Train
Infrequent buses from Gotemba, Mishima and Fuji stations.

Car
22 kilometers west of Gotemba Interchange.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

### By bus

During the ski season, infrequent [buses](e2015.html) to Yeti Snow Resort depart from Gotemba Station (60-75 minutes, 1570 yen one way), Mishima Station (70-80 minutes, 1830 yen one way) and Fuji Station (90 minutes, 1870 yen one way). Set tickets, which combine the round trip by bus and a 1-day lift pass are available at a reduced cost.

### By car

Nearby [rental car](e2024.html) outlets are found around Mishima, Gotemba and Fuji stations. Snow tires and winter driving skills are required to access Yeti Snow Resort in winter conditions.