---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6056.html
title: Daio Wasabi Farm
description: Visitor guide for the Daio Wasabi Farm near Matsumoto, one of Japan's largest wasabi farms.
keywords: daio, wasabi, farm, azumino, matsumoto
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2151
char_count: 14047
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:19:59
---

The Daio Wasabi Farm (大王わさび農場, Daiō Wasabi Nōjō) in rural Azumino City near [Matsumoto](e6050.html) is one of Japan's largest [wasabi](e2311.html) farms and a popular tourist destination. The farm has multiple large fields with a meticulously maintained network of small streams that constantly provides each wasabi plant with clear, flowing water from the [Northern Alps](e6043.html). Only under such pristine conditions is wasabi cultivation possible. From May to October, the fields are protected from the sun by black tarp sheets.

The farm has been attractively developed for tourists with walking trails between the fields. Within the farm stands the Daio Shrine, which enshrines the spirit of an ancient local hero, Hachimen Daio, after which the farm has been named and who is considered the farm's protector. Nearby the shrine is also a small cave related to the local hero's legend.

An idyllic scene of old-fashioned, wooden water wheels alongside the river can also be enjoyed from the walking trails. The water wheels were constructed here for the filming of Kurosawa Akira's "Dreams" in 1989 and have been left standing. From late April to late October the scenery can also be enjoyed from short tours on inflatable boats (about 20 minutes, 1400 yen).

Last but not least, the farm features multiple shops and a restaurant. On sale is a wide variety of [wasabi](e2311.html) related products, including fresh wasabi, wasabi paste, wasabi flavored [pickles](e2349.html) and crackers, wasabi [soba noodles](e2341.html), wasabi [curry](e2351.html), wasabi sausages, wasabi dressing, wasabi beer, wasabi juice, wasabi soft cream and wasabi chocolate.

Fresh wasabi

Take the JR Oito Line from [Matsumoto](e6050.html) to Hotaka Station (30 minutes, 330 yen one way, 1-2 trains/hour), from where the wasabi farm can be reached in a ten minute [taxi](e2021.html) ride (approx. 2000 yen one way). On selected days from late April to early November, the Azumino Loop Bus for tourists connects Hotaka Station with the farm (10 minutes, 600 yen per ride or 1000 yen for a 1-day pass). Outside of winter, rental bicycles are another alternative to consider.

[How to get to and around Matsumoto](e6053.html)