---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6556.html
title: Nagatoro River Boat Cruises
description: Visitor guide for river boat cruises along the Arakawa River in Nagatoro.
keywords: nagatoro, river, cruise, cruises, boat, arakawa, rivers, boating, boats, traditional, ride, rides
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 528
char_count: 3910
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:10:37
---

A boat at Iwadatami, surrounded by autumnal displays

The Arakawa River (荒川) originates in the mountains of [Chichibu](e6550.html) and flows through [Saitama Prefecture](/list/e1213.html) and [Tokyo](e2164.html) before emptying into Tokyo Bay. The section around Nagatoro, ten kilometers downriver from central [Chichibu](e6550.html), is particularly scenic and can be enjoyed from river cruises. The most popular period for these cruises is mid to late November when the riverbank typically exhibits vibrant [autumn color](e2014.html) displays. In winter, shorter cruises with heated low tables (kotatsu) are offered. The cruises do not operate when water levels are too low.

There are three boat operators, offering the same route options for the same prices. Lacking engines, the cruise boats terminate downriver from where they begin. There are two 30-minute routes consisting of an **upper course** that ends at the Iwadatami pier near Nagatoro Station and a **lower course** that starts at Iwadatami.

Reservations can be made ahead of time on each of the companies' websites (in [Japanese](e621.html) only) or can be booked on the day. Certain course choices may not be available to those booking on the day, especially during busy seasons. Prior to departure, passengers meet at the operator's office around Nagatoro Station. This is also where the tours disband.

Life jacket-clad passengers brace as the cruise hits small rapids (a plastic sheet offers protection from splashes)

All three cruise operators have their offices short walks from Nagatoro Station.

### From Chichibu

From [Chichibu](e6550.html), take the Chichibu Railway to Nagatoro (20 minutes, 550 yen one way, 1-2 trains/hour).

### From Tokyo

There are multiple options for reaching Nagatoro from central [Tokyo](e2164.html) as follows:

Option 1: Take a [limited express](e2016.html) along the Seibu Ikebukuro Line from [Ikebukuro](e3038.html) to Seibu-Chichibu, then take a short walk over to Ohanabatake Station and take the Chichibu Railway to Nagatoro (just under two hours, 2250 yen one way, 1 connection/hour).

Option 2: Take the Tobu Tojo Line from [Ikebukuro](e3038.html) to Yorii (with one transfer at Ogawamachi), and then the Chichibu Railway from Yorii to Nagatoro (2 hours, 1470 yen one way, 1-2 connections/hour).

Option 3: Take the [JR Joetsu Shinkansen](e2018_joetsu.html) or JR Takasaki Line from Tokyo to Kumagaya and then the Chichibu Railway from Kumagaya to Nagatoro. The one way trip takes 100-120 minutes and costs just over 4000 yen by shinkansen or 130 minutes and 2020 yen by Takasaki Line. The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) covers the JR portion of the trip but does not cover the Chichibu Railway (850 yen one way).

[How to get to and around Chichibu](e6551.html)