---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6960.html
title: Kofu Museum Guide
description: A list of museums in and around Kofu.
keywords: kofu, museum, museums, art, history, prefecture, shadow, jewelry
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 508
char_count: 3925
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:14:47
---

On the grounds of the Yamanashi Prefectural Art Museum

In addition to [wineries](e6954.html), [historical sites](e6957.html) and [hot springs](e6959.html), [Kofu](e6950.html) is also home to a variety of [museums](e2428.html). Being the largest city and capital of [Yamanashi Prefecture](/list/e1217.html), Kofu has museums on not just the city itself but on the heritage of the prefecture at large. A selection of the museums that are of particular interest are listed below:

* 

  Yamanashi Prefectural Museum

  10 minute by [taxi](e2021.html) from Isawaonsen St. or 30 minute by bus from Kofu St.  
  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Tue (or next day if Tue is [holiday](e2062.html)), day after [holidays](e2062.html), [New Year](e2276.html)  
  Admission: 520 yen  
  Typical visit duration: 45-90 minutes

  This modern and spacious museum gives an extensive and well-done account of the history of [Yamanashi](/list/e1217.html) from prehistoric times through the feudal era and the role the area played in the warring states period to the modern era and the rise of industry. Visitors walk through a large hall that is set out chronologically and recounts the history through interactive displays, models and dioramas.
* 

  Yamanashi Prefectural Museum of Art

  15 minute taxi/bus ride from Kofu Station  
  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Mon (or next day if Mon is [holiday](e2062.html)), day after [holidays](e2062.html), [New Year](e2276.html)  
  Admission: 520 yen  
  Typical visit duration: 30-60 minutes

  Known as the "Museum of Millet", the exhibition rooms of this spacious complex house an extensive selection of works by French painter Jean-Francois Millet and other European landscape artists. There are also exhibitions that showcase the work of contemporary Japanese artists.
* 

  Yamanashi Jewelry Museum

  10 minute walk from Kofu Station  
  Hours: 10:00 to 17:30 (entry until 17:00)  
  Closed: Tuesdays (or following day if Tuesday is a [national holiday](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html)  
  Admission: Free  
  Typical visit duration: 15 minutes

  This museum celebrates [Yamanashi Prefecture](/list/e1217.html)'s history of crystals and precious stones, and the production of jewelry using these materials. On display in the exhibition area are a selection of rare rocks and minerals sourced locally, from other parts of Japan and the world, and various items of jewelry made from them.

[Kofu](e6950.html)'s museums are spread out around Kofu and surroundings.

[How to get to and around Kofu](e6953.html)