---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6407.html
title: National Museum of Japanese History
description: Visitor guide for the National Museum of Japanese History in Sakura, near Narita Airport.
keywords: national, museum, japanese, history, sakura, narita
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1821
char_count: 12206
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:17:51
---

Also known as Rekihaku, the National Museum of Japanese History (国立歴史民俗博物館, Kokuritsu Rekishi Minzoku Hakubutsukan) is a government-run, well designed [museum](e2428.html) that traces the [history](e641.html) and cultural development of the Japanese people.

The permanent exhibition spans six galleries with each covering a period from prehistoric times to modern Japan. The displays are well designed and include a lot of cultural artifacts, reproductions and models.

There is also a seventh gallery that hosts temporary exhibitions (separate entrance fees apply). Most of the galleries of the permanent exhibitions have English signs and descriptions, and English audio guides are available from the front desk free of charge. The museum is located not far from [Narita Airport](e2027.html) on the former grounds of Sakura Castle.

Replica of Kasamori Inari Daimyojin Shrine

The National Museum of Japanese History is located about 15 kilometers west of [Narita Airport](e2027.html).

### By Keisei Railway

Trains operate every 20 minutes between Narita Airport and Keisei Sakura Station (20 minutes, 480 yen), stopping at Keisei Narita Station (10 minutes, 280 yen) along the way. From Keisei Sakura Station, the museum can be reached in a 15-20 minute walk or a 5 minute [bus](e2015.html) ride.

### By JR (Japan Railways)

Rapid trains operate once per hour between Narita Airport and JR Sakura Station (25 minutes, 420 yen), stopping at JR Narita Station (15 minutes, 240 yen) along the way. From JR Sakura Station, the museum can be reached in a 15 minute [bus](e2354.html) ride.

### By car

It takes about 30 minutes to reach the museum from [Narita Airport](e2027.html) by [car](e2024.html) if using the [expressway](e2354.html) (780 yen expressway tolls one way, get off at Sakura IC) or about 45 minutes by toll-free roads.

[How to get to and around Narita](e6402.html)