---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6312.html
title: Dogashima
description: Visitor guide for Dogashima on the western coast of the Izu Peninsula, famous for its spectacular coastline.
keywords: dogashima, izu, peninsula, west, coast
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1733
char_count: 11182
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:17:01
---

Dogashima (堂ヶ島, Dōgashima) in western [Izu](e6310.html) is famous for its dramatic stone formations, cliffs and caves formed by the lava flow of past volcanic eruptions and shoreline erosion. The best way to see the coast is from one of the frequently departing sightseeing boats, which briefly enter one of the larger caves. The cruises around Dogashima take about 20-25 minutes, although longer tours are also available.

On the small peninsula south of the boat pier is the Sawada Park Open Air Bath (Sawada Koen Rotemburo), a cliff-side [hot spring](e2292.html) bath with beautiful views over the ocean. The baths are gender-separated.

The Futo Coast, about 2.5 kilometers northwest of Dogashima, is a small bay with a stony [beach](e2461.html) and a hiking trail that leads to rock formations known as magmatic dikes. These dikes were formed when magma rose to the surface and solidified along the vent of a volcano. The outer layers of the volcano eroded over time, leaving just the volcanic neck - a magmatic dike.

Magmatic dikes along the Futo Coast

Dogashima can be accessed by [bus](e2015.html) from [Shuzenji Station](e6311.html) (90 minutes, 2480 yen one way, 1 bus/hour) or [Izukyu-Shimoda Station](e6300.html) (1 hour, 1680 yen, 1-2 buses/hour).

The Futo Coast is about 2.5 kilometers north of Dogashima. From Dogashima, take a [bus](e2015.html) bound for Shuzenji Station and get off at Futo (浮島, 5 minutes, 210 yen one way). From there it is about a ten minute walk down to the shoreline. Alternatively, the Futo Coast is about a 45 minute walk from Dogashima, but note that half of the walking route is alongside the main road without much space for pedestrians.

[How to get to and around the Izu Peninsula](e6305.html)