---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6933.html
title: From where to view Mount Fuji
description: Introducing some of the best spots for viewing Mount Fuji.
keywords: view, see, mount, mt, fuji, fujisan, views, viewing, spot
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 3499
char_count: 23061
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:46:09
---

Rising 3776 meters above sea level, [Mount Fuji](e2172.html) is Japan's tallest mountain and most iconic landmark. Images of the nearly perfect, solitary volcano have appeared in paintings, [wood block prints](e2291.html) and other artworks for centuries. Some collections even attempt to capture the essence of seeing the mountain from various viewpoints, [Hokusai](e6022.html)'s popular "36 Views of Mount Fuji" being a prime example.

There are many opportunities for travelers to enjoy views of Mount Fuji. Of course, the most obvious would be to [climb the mountain](e6901.html), as you cannot help but see the slopes as you plod along the trails up to the peak. But the climbing season only lasts for a few months and frankly, Mount Fuji looks better from afar than from close up.

Mount Fuji can be seen from countless points in the surrounding regions, seemingly assuming a different character from each perspective. On the clearest of days, its white capped peak may be visible from hundreds of kilometers away; however, more often than not the view of the mountaintop is obstructed by low hanging clouds or poor visibility. To increase your chances of success, try to see the mountain in the early mornings or late afternoons, especially during the colder winter months when visibility tends to better than during summer. The mountain's famous snow cap is typically visible from around November to around May.

The [Fuji Five Lakes](e6900.html) region on the northern slopes of Mount Fuji offers visitors the highest chance for good views of the mountain due to its proximity. The more distant [Hakone](e5200.html) is also a popular place to see the mountain, but odds of catching clear views are lower there since it needs to be clear both in Hakone and around the mountain. The following list includes these and other good spots from which to get a nice view of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html):

### From Tokyo

On clear days, many of [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s [observation decks](e3057.html) offer interesting views of Mount Fuji in contrast with the urban skyline of Tokyo. Thanks to an improvement in air quality, the number of days that Mount Fuji is visible from central Tokyo has steadily risen over the past decades and now stands at over 120.

* 

  [Bunkyo Civic Center](e3057.html)

  Hours: 9:00 to 20:30  
  Closed: 3rd Sunday in May, December 29 to January 3  
  Admission: Free

  Of the numerous [observation decks in Tokyo](e3057.html), the centrally located Bunkyo Civic Center provides some of the most striking views of Mount Fuji, as the mountain can be seen looming large behind the skyscrapers of the [Shinjuku](e3011.html) district.
* 

  [Mount Takao (Takaosan)](e3029.html)

  [Takaosan](e3029.html) is a wooded mountain in western Tokyo and one of the closest places to the city where you can enjoy nature and hiking. On clear days Mount Fuji is visible from the the mountain's summit and from the trail that continues westward along the ridge.

### From the shinkansen

The [Tokaido Shinkansen](e2018_tokaido.html) runs south of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html), allowing travelers a view of the mountain from the trains as they whiz by. There are also some good spots south of the train tracks that allow for views of the shinkansen trains with Mount Fuji as backdrop.

* 

  [From the train](e2018_tokaido.html)

  Mount Fuji can be seen from the [Tokaido Shinkansen](e2018_tokaido.html) between [Tokyo](e2164.html) and [Osaka](e2157.html). When coming from Tokyo, the mountain appears on the right side of the train and is best viewed around Shin-Fuji Station, about 40-45 minutes into the journey. The best views can be enjoyed from the window-side seat F (or seat D in Green Cars).
* 

  Together with the train

  The famous view of Mount Fuji in combination with [shinkansen](e2018.html) trains can be enjoyed from the farmland east of central Fuji City.

### From the Fuji Five Lake Region

Just north of the mountain, the [Fuji Five Lake](e6900.html) region offers some of the best views of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html). There are several points around the lakes with beautiful views. The area is also one of only a few places in Japan were you can see the rare "Double Diamond Fuji", i.e. Mount Fuji together with its reflection just as the rising or setting sun touches the mountain's peak.

* 

  [Northern shore of Lake Kawaguchiko](e6906.html)

  The northern shore of [Lake Kawaguchiko](e6906.html) offers some of the most breathtaking views of the mountain, which sometimes come with a reflection in the lake. The shores offer views of the lake and mountain in combination with [cherry blossoms](e6920.html) usually around mid April and in combination with [autumn colors](e2014.html) usually around mid November.
* 

  [Chureito Pagoda](e6917.html)

  The [Chureito Pagoda](e6917.html) is a five storied pagoda on the mountainside overlooking Fujiyoshida City. The pagoda is one of [Fujigoko](e6900.html)'s most popular [cherry blossom spots](e6920.html) where you can get beautiful views of Mount Fuji rising up through a sea of cherry blossoms.
* 

  [Lake Yamanakako](e6908.html)

  [Lake Yamanakako](e6908.html) is the easternmost, largest and second most developed of the [Fuji Five Lakes](e6900.html). There are good views of the mountain from the lake, especially along the northern shore.
* 

  [Oshino Hakkai](e6915.html)

  [Oshino Hakkai](e6915.html) is a small, touristy village northeast of Mount Fuji between [Lake Kawaguchiko](e6906.html) and [Lake Yamanakako](e6908.html). Visitors can enjoy views of the mountain together with the thatched roofs of the Hannoki Bayashi Shiryokan [open air museum](e2421.html) from an observation deck near the entrance to the museum.
* 

  [Mount Fuji Panoramic Ropeway](e6916.html)

  The [Mount Fuji Panoramic Ropeway](e6916.html) leads to an observation deck overlooking Mount Fuji and [Lake Kawaguchiko](e6906.html) from 400 meters up the side of Mount Tenjo. A hiking trail leads from here to Mount Mitsutoge, a popular day hike with good views of Mount Fuji.
* 

  [Lake Motosuko](e6910.html)

  [Lake Motosuko](e6910.html) is the westernmost of the five lakes and largely undeveloped. A famous view of the mountain from the lake's northwestern shore appears on Japan's [1000 yen bill](e2196.html). Unfortunately, it is rather difficult to reach by public transportation as many [buses](e2015.html) only stop along the eastern side of the lake.
* 

  [Fuji Shibazakura Festival](e6919.html)

  Held between mid April to late May near [Lake Motosuko](e6910.html), the [Fuji Shibazakura Festival](e6919.html) is one of the best places to see [pink moss](e2423.html) (shibazakura). The flowers usually looks best around the first three weeks of May.

### From Hakone

[Hakone](e5200.html) offers some of the most beautiful views of Mount Fuji... when you can actually see it. Unfortunately visibility is often poor, especially during midday when fog and low clouds may gather on the mountain.

* 

  [Moto Hakone](e5201.html)

  The Moto Hakone area along the southern shores of [Lake Ashinoko](e5201.html) offers the classic Hakone view of the lake in combination with Mount Fuji. Nice views can also be enjoyed from the [Hakone Detached Palace](e5207.html) and from the sightseeing boats that ply the lake.
* 

  [Owakudani](e5203.html)

  [Owakudani](e5203.html) is an active volcanic "hell valley" on the northern slopes of Mount Hakone. On clear days Mount Fuji can be seen from the walking paths that lead around the area's fuming hot spring fields and from the ropeway that connects Togendai with Owakudani.
* 

  [Gotemba Premium Outlets](e5213.html)

  Shoppers can enjoy views of Mount Fuji from the [Gotemba Premium Outlets](e5213.html), one of the most popular [outlet malls](e2451.html) in Japan. The outlet mall features over 200 international and domestic brand stores located down in the valley between [Hakone](e5200.html) and the mountain.

### From the Miura Peninsula

The Miura Peninsula is a small peninsula south of [Yokohama](e2156.html), which is popular for its [beaches](e3076.html). On a clear day, [Mount Fuji](e2172.html) can be seen from the beaches on the western side of the peninsula.

* 

  Western coast of Miura Peninsula

  From Zushi to Miura, the [beaches](e3076.html) along the western coast of the Miura Peninsula offer good views of Mount Fuji across the bay.

### From the Izu Peninsula

The [Izu Peninsula](e6310.html) is a popular resort area south of Mount Fuji. The best views are from the peninsula's western coast where you can see the mountain together with coastal scenery.

* 

  [Western coast of Izu Peninsula](e6310.html)

  The western coast of the [Izu Peninsula](e6310.html) offers good views of Mount Fuji, especially from around Heda where you can see the mountain in combination with beautiful coastal scenery.

### From Shizuoka City

Parts of [Shizuoka City](e6350.html) offer nice views of Mount Fuji, especially from around [Shimizu Port](e6354.html).

* 

  [Nihondaira Plateau](e6353.html)

  The [Nihondaira Plateau](e6353.html) offers an elevated view of Mount Fuji together with [tea](e2041.html) fields and the urban [Shimizu Port](e6354.html) town below. It is often combined with a visit to [Kunozan Toshogu Shrine](e6353.html).
* 

  [Miho Beach](e6355.html)

  [Miho Beach](e6355.html) is a three kilometer long, pine tree-lined [beach](e2461.html) along a peninsula on the western coast of Suruga Bay. Famous for the views of its pebbly shoreline in combination with Mount Fuji, Miho Beach was added to the list of Japan's [UNESCO World Heritage Sites](e2251.html) together with Mount Fuji for this very reason.

### From the air

Some flights to/from [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s [Haneda Airport](e2430.html) closely pass by Mount Fuji, offering passengers a bird's eye view.

* 

  [From the airplane](e2365.html)

  The best views of Mount Fuji can be enjoyed on [flights](e2365.html) heading from [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s [Haneda Airport](e2430.html) in western directions, when the planes often fly very close to - if not right above - the mountain. Flights from western Japan in the direction of Haneda Airport usually pass further south, but can still provide nice views.

### From hot spring baths

One of the most relaxing ways to see Mount Fuji is from an [onsen](e2292.html) bath. While a few hot spring resort exist near the mountain, there are surprisingly few [ryokan](e2029.html) and [public baths](e2074.html) from where you can actually view the mountain while relaxing in the steaming hot water.

* 

  [Hot springs around the Fuji Five Lakes](e6902.html)

  Many [hot spring baths](e2292.html) are scattered around the Fuji Five Lake area, but surprisingly few of them have views of Mount Fuji from their pools. Several ryokan along the northeastern shores of Lake Kawaguchiko offer baths with that luxury, as do the public baths [Yurari](e6902.html#yurari) south of [Lake Saiko](e6907.html) and [Benifuji no Yu](e6902.html#benifuji) near [Lake Yamanakako](e6908.html).
* 

  [Hot springs around Hakone](e5209.html)

  The number of [hot spring](e2292.html) baths with views of Mount Fuji in [Hakone](e5200.html) is even lower. Among the exceptions is the [Green Plaza Hotel](e5209.html#green) near Togendai whose outdoor baths allow the mountain to be viewed when visibility is good. The baths are also open to non-staying guests for an admission fee during limited daytime hours.

### From the ski slopes

Two small [ski resorts](e2262_resort.html) can be found on the lower slopes of Mount Fuji that offer skiers and snowboarders a unique view of the mountain as they barrel down its slopes.

* 

  [Fujiten Snow Resort](e6931.html)

  The larger of the two ski resorts on Mount Fuji, [Fujiten Snow Resort](e6931.html) lies along the northern base of the mountain, and its facilities offer some nice views of the peak. The park has a good selection of runs for its size, as well as a large kids park.
* 

  [Snow Town Yeti](e6932.html)

  Located on the south slopes of the mountain, Snow Town Yeti is far from being the largest ski resort in Japan. However, considering that it is the earliest ski resort in the country to open each season (opening around late October, albeit with man-made snow) and one of only two ski resorts on the slopes on Mount Fuji, it may be well worth it for snow fans to keep [Snow Town Yeti](e6932.html) on their radar.


[Read our Mount Fuji Hotel Guide](/hotels/fujigoko.html)

Top rated around the Fuji Five Lakes

[powered by](https://www.booking.com?aid=371183)

Budget:

AllLow  $Mid  $$High  $$$

* + [](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/taiheikan.html?aid=371183)

    [Taiheikan](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/taiheikan.html?aid=371183)

    Mid-range

    Well situated in the Fujikawaguchiko Onsen-kyo district of Fujikawaguchiko, Taiheikan is set 2 km from Lake Kawaguchi, 3.8 km from Fuji-Q Highland and 25 km from Mount Fuji. Each accommodation at the 3-star ryokan has mountain views, and guests can enjoy access to a hot spring bath and a public bath. The ryokan offers rooms with air conditioning, free private parking and free WiFi.
    At the ryokan, the units are equipped with a tatami. A fridge and kettle are also featured. At the ryokan, each unit comes with a flat-screen TV and a safety deposit box.
    The ryokan is located in a geothermal area, with a number of hot springs nearby for guests to relax in.
    Popular points of interest near the ryokan include Lake Kawaguchi Ohashi Bridge, Mount Kachi Kachi Ropeway and Fujiomuro Sengen Shrine. Shizuoka Airport is 122 km away.

    

    9.7Booking.com
  + [](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/kawaguchiko-lakeside.html?aid=371183)

    [Kawaguchiko Lakeside Hotel](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/kawaguchiko-lakeside.html?aid=371183)

    Budget-friendly

    Located just a minute's walk from Kawaguchiko Lake, Kawaguchiko Lakeside Hotel offers accommodation in Fujikawaguchiko, near Kawaguchiko Ohashi Bridge. Free WiFi is available throughout the entire property. The hotel is a minutes' walk away from the shores of Kawaguchiko and Kawaguchiko Herbkan.
    The hotel offers shuttle service from Kawaguchiko Station, which takes 5-minutes to the hotel. Fuji-Q Highland is a 10-minute drive away, while Fujimuro-sengen Shrine is a 15-minute drive away. Mt. Fuji 5th Station is an hour bus ride from Kawaguchiko Station.
    All rooms come with a flat-screen TV. For your comfort, you will find slippers and a hair dryer.
    There is free shuttle service at the property.
    Oike Park is a 2-minute walk away, while Yamanashi Gem Museum is a 4-minute walk from Lakeside Hotel Kawaguchiko.

    

    9.6Booking.com
  + [](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/min-su-iwaki.html?aid=371183)

    [Minshuku Iwaki](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/min-su-iwaki.html?aid=371183)

    Budget-friendly

    Located in Fujikawaguchiko and only 1 km from Lake Kawaguchi, Minshuku Iwaki provides accommodation with mountain views, free WiFi and free private parking. The 2-star guest house features lake views and is 3.9 km from Fuji-Q Highland. The guest house has family rooms.
    At the guest house, each unit is equipped with a tatami and a flat-screen TV.
    The guest house is located in a geothermal area, with a number of hot springs nearby for guests to relax in.
    Guests can also relax in the garden.
    Mount Fuji is 24 km from the guest house, while Fujiomuro Sengen Shrine is 1.1 km away. Shizuoka Airport is 121 km from the property.

    

    9.6Booking.com
  + [](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/mizuno.html?aid=371183)

    [Mizno Hotel](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/mizuno.html?aid=371183)

    Luxury

    Offering beautiful Mount Fuji views from all rooms, public baths, and restaurants, Mizno Hotel is a 5-minute drive from Kawaguchiko Train Station. Located on a hilltop and overlooking Lake Kawaguchi, the hotel serves French dinner with an advance reservation.
    Guests at Mizno Hotel can sleep in Western-style beds, or experience traditional futon bedding on a tatami (woven-straw) floor in one of the Japanese-style rooms. All rooms are air-conditioned and have an LCD TV and Yukata robes.
    The shore of Lake Kawaguchi is a 2-minute walk. Fuji-Q Highland amusement park and Fuji-Omuro Sengen Shrine are less than a 15-minute drive from the hotel. On-site parking is free, and free pick-up from Kawaguchiko Station is offered from 14:00-18:00. Mount Fuji 5th Station for climbing is a 1-hour bus ride from Kawaguchiko Station.
    Guests can relax in the sauna or in the private open-air bath. The hotel has English-speaking staff.
    The bar, which also has a library, offers a variety of drinks. The sophisticated atmosphere is popular with couples.

    

    9.5Booking.com
  + [](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/hostel-mitikusaya.html?aid=371183)

    [HOSTEL MICHIKUSA-YA](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/hostel-mitikusaya.html?aid=371183)

    Mid-range

    Set in Fujikawaguchiko, less than 1 km from Lake Kawaguchi, HOSTEL MICHIKUSA-YA offers accommodation with a garden, free private parking and a shared lounge. The 3-star hostel has air-conditioned rooms with a shared bathroom and free WiFi. The accommodation provides a shared kitchen, free shuttle service and luggage storage for guests.
    Fuji-Q Highland is 4.6 km from the hostel, while Mount Fuji is 25 km away. Shizuoka Airport is 121 km from the property.

    

    9.5Booking.com
  + [](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/asobigong-chang.html?aid=371183)

    [Guesthouse Honobono](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/asobigong-chang.html?aid=371183)

    Budget-friendly

    Renovated in September 2018, Guesthouseほのぼの offers an accommodation with free WiFi in Fujikawaguchiko, 1.3 km from Lake Kawaguchi. Free private parking is available on site on a first-come, first-serve basis as well as prior reservation. Free shuttle service is available upon prior request from the property to Kawaguchiko Station.
    There is a shared kitchen and lounge at the property. Guests can make some coffee and tea free of charge. Bath amenities including towels, toiletries and toothbrushes are available at the front desk for a fee.
    Mount Fuji is 16 km from Guesthouseほのぼの, while Shimobe Hot Spring is 26 km away.

    

    9.5Booking.com
  + [](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/fuji-guest-house-ao.html?aid=371183)

    [Fuji Guest House Ao](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/fuji-guest-house-ao.html?aid=371183)

    Budget-friendly

    Located in Fujikawaguchiko, 1.7 km from Fuji-Q Highland, Fuji Guest House Ao provides accommodation with a shared lounge, private parking and a terrace. With free bikes, the 1-star hostel has air-conditioned rooms with free WiFi, each with a shared bathroom. The property is non-smoking and is set 3 km from Lake Kawaguchi.
    Mount Fuji is 22 km from the hostel, while Mount Kachi Kachi Ropeway is 1.8 km away. Shizuoka Airport is 122 km from the property.

    

    9.5Booking.com
  + [](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/konanso.html?aid=371183)

    [Fujikawaguchiko Onsen Konanso](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/konanso.html?aid=371183)

    Luxury

    Featuring great views of Mount Fuji and Lake Kawaguchi, Konanso boasts natural hot spring baths and large Japanese-style rooms with traditional tatami (woven-straw) flooring. It is only a 2-minute walk from a ferry stop, where guests can board sightseeing cruises. Free WiFi is offered in all areas.
    Konanso offers indoor and outdoor hot spring baths, a private-use bath (charges apply), and a foot bath on the rooftop. Relaxing massage services can be arranged. Other facilities include karaoke rooms and a lounge bar. A souvenir shop can be found on the ground floor.
    Guest rooms at Konanso are fitted with futon bedding, a seating area and a flat-screen TV. A Fridge and an electric kettle are also provided. Guests can try on Yukata robes or enjoy free green tea in their room. Some rooms feature an open-air hot spring bath.
    The property is a 10-minute drive from Kawaguchiko Train Station. A free pick-up service from the station is available upon request. Mount Fuji 5th Station for climbing is a 1-hour bus ride from Kawaguchiko Station. Popular Fuji-Q Highland Amusement Park is a 5-minute drive away, while Gotemba Outlet Shopping Mall can be reached within a 40-minute drive.
    Seasonal Japanese multi-course meals are served either in a private dining room or in the guestroom. Breakfast can be enjoyed at the dining room.

    

    9.4Booking.com
  + [](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/asafuji-fujikawaguchiko.html?aid=371183)

    [Hotel Asafuji](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/asafuji-fujikawaguchiko.html?aid=371183)

    Mid-range

    Boasting views of Mount Fuji and Lake Kawaguchi for all rooms and hot-spring baths, Hotel Asafuji provides air-conditioned Japanese-style rooms with a green tea set. Free WiFi available throughout the hotel and free on-site parking is available. Free pick-up service is available from Kawaguchiko Station upon request.
    The air-conditioned rooms at Hotel Asafuji have Shoji paper screens and a low table with floor chairs and cushions. Each room includes a fridge, private toilet, and guests bathe at the hot-spring baths. Japanese-style futon bedding on a tatami (woven-straw) floor is provided. Yukata robes are offered for guests.
    Massages are available, and the reception can store luggage. The public hot-spring baths are open from 06:00-09:30 and from 15:00-23:30 daily.
    A Japanese set breakfast and kaiseki multi-course dinner are available at the on-site restaurant for an extra fee with an advance reservation.
    Kawaguchiko Station is a 10-minute drive, while Kawaguchiko Ropeway and Lake Kawaguchi's boat dock is a 3-minute drive away from the hotel. Kawaguchiko Music Forest and Kawaguchiko Museum Of Art is a 7-minute drive. Oishi Parkand is a 10-minute drive away, while Fuji-Q Highland amusement park is a 15-minute drive away.

    

    9.4Booking.com
  + [](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/fujikawaguchiko-crescend.html?aid=371183)

    [Fujikawaguchiko Crescendo](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/fujikawaguchiko-crescend.html?aid=371183)

    Budget-friendly

    Located a 10-minute walk away from Lake Kawaguchi, Fujikawaguchiko Crescendo welcomes guests with a complimentary drink. Kawaguchiko Train Station is located a 12-minute taxi ride from the property. Free WiFi is available in public areas, which features a bar and dining area with darts and live music. Certain rooms feature views of Mount Fuji.
    At Fujikawaguchiko Crescendo guests can soak in the private hot springs bath, enjoy the fluorescing stars of the mini planetarium while relaxing in the hot tub, or grab a drink at the bar and enjoy a game of darts. Drinks vending machines and luggage storage services are also available on site.
    Rooms feature an en suite bathroom, a flat-screen TV and air conditioning/heating. All rooms are equipped with a hairdryer.
    A Western-style set breakfast is served at the dining lounge. Property staff provides a music performance and sings Japanese and English songs including some original music. Over 100 cocktails are provided at the bar on site, including fruit juice cocktails made from home-grown fruits.
    Guests can make a visit to the Kawaguchiko Music Forest Museum with a 15-minute walk. Kawaguchiko Sarumawashi Gekijo-mae bus stop is a 10-minute walk from the property. Fuji-Q Highland can be reached within a 15-minute taxi ride while JR Tokyo Station is a 2-hour drive away. The Itchiku Kubota Art Museum is a 10-minute walk from the property and Sengen Shrine is a 15-minute walk away.

    

    9.4Booking.com

  Show More

  [See more on Booking.com](https://www.booking.com/searchresults.en.html?city=900049907&aid=371183&no_rooms=1&group_adults=2)