---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6356.html
title: Tokaido Hiroshige Museum
description: Visitor guide for the Tokaido Hiroshige Museum of Art, a museum about woodblock (ukiyoe) artwork by Utagawa Hiroshige.
keywords: Tokaido, Hiroshige, Museum, art, ukiyoe, woodblock, print
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1622
char_count: 10911
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:27:18
---

The Tokaido Hiroshige Museum of Art (静岡市東海道広重美術館, Shizuoka-shi Tōkaidō Hiroshige Bijutsukan) is a [museum](e2428.html) devoted to [ukiyo-e](e2291.html) artist Utagawa Hiroshige (1797-1858) and his works. Hiroshige is most famous for his [woodblock prints](e2291.html) of the "53 Stations of the Tokaido" and the "100 famous views of Edo".

Established in 1994, the museum is located along the former Tokaido highway, which used to be the main connection between [Tokyo](e2164.html) and [Kyoto](e2158.html) during the [feudal ages](e2128.html). It is located in the former post town of Yui, not too far from the Satta Pass which is depicted in one of Hiroshige's prints that make up his famous "53 Stations of the Tokaido" series.

The museum is separated into two sections. The **permanent exhibition** offers a well done introduction to [ukiyo-e](e2291.html) as a form of information dissemination, as well as the life and career of Hiroshige. The second is a room for **temporary exhibitions**, which showcase selected ukiyo-e works by Hiroshige and his students from the museum's large collection.

Permanent display at the museum

The Tokaido Hiroshige Museum is located about 20 kilometers northeast of [Shizuoka](e6350.html)'s city center. It is about a 30 minute walk from Yui Station (20 minutes, 420 yen one way from Shizuoka Station) on the JR Tokaido Main Line. Alternatively, a [taxi](e2021.html) ride from the station takes about five minutes and costs about 1000 yen.

[How to get to and around Shizuoka](e6351.html)