---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6704.html
title: Sakaimachi Street
description: Visitor guide for Sakaimachi Street, a preserved merchant street in the city of Otaru.
keywords: otaru, sakaimachi, sakai, machi, street, glass, glassware
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1727
char_count: 11332
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:35:52
---

Sakaimachi Street (境町通り, Sakaimachi-dōri) is an attractive, preserved merchant street in central [Otaru](e6700.html), a short walk from the city's [canal area](e6701.html). During the development of [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html) in the late 1800s and early 1900s, Otaru thrived as a port city, and many trading companies constructed impressive Western-style buildings in the city to house their offices and shops.

Many of the buildings along Sakaimachi Street have since been converted into restaurants, cafes, souvenir shops, boutiques and museums. There are also a few glass workshops for tourists to enjoy a hands-on experience in creating the local Otaru Glass.

* 

  Music Box Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 18:00 (until 19:00 on Fridays and Saturdays in summer)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free

  The Music Box Museum consists of multiple buildings scattered around the southern end of Sakaimachi Street, one of which houses a small museum about music boxes. The most prominent building, however, is a large shop with a wide variety of music boxes on sale. In front of the building stands a steam clock, presented by the city of Vancouver in Canada.
* 

  Glass Workshops

  When the [herring fishing industry](e6703.html) declined in the 1950s, the makers of glass buoys shifted to the production of refined glassware instead. Nowadays, Otaru benefits greatly from the reputation of its glassware, attracting many tourists to its glass shops. In addition to selling Otaru glassware, many shops allow customers to make their own cups, bowls or vases for typically 2000 to 3000 yen.
* 

  Museum of Venetian Art

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 700 yen

  The local glass producer Kitaichi opened this 5- story museum dedicated to the arts of Venice. Inside visitors find displays of Venetian glassware, clothing and furniture, as well as a gondola.
* 

  Bank of Japan Museum

  Hours: 9:30 to 17:00 (from 10:00 in December through March)  
  Admission ends 30 minutes before closing  
  Closed: Wednesdays (open if Wed is a [national holiday](e2062.html)), Dec 29 to Jan 5  
  Admission: Free

  The Otaru branch of the Bank of Japan dates back to 1912. It was converted into a museum in 2003 and features a number of displays about Japanese money and the branch's history, including an old vault where visitors can feel the weight of a hundred million [yen](e2196.html).

Sakaimachi Street is a ten minute walk from Otaru Station or a five minute walk from Minami-Otaru Station.

[How to get to and around Otaru](e6705.html)