---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6878.html
title: How to get to and around Rishiri and Rebun\: Access, Orientation and Transportation
description: How to get to and around Rishiri and Rebun Islands.
keywords: rishiri, rebun, rishirito, rebunto, island, ferries, ferry, boat, access, orientation, transportation, transport, get there, directions, flight
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 409
char_count: 2863
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:20:19
---

### How to travel to Rishiri and Rebun

#### By ferry from Wakkanai

Heart Land Ferry operates the following [ferry](e2355.html) routes:

* Wakkanai - Rishiri (Oshidomari Port)
    
  100 minutes, about 3600 yen one way, 2-3 round trips per day
* Wakkanai - Rebun (Kafuka Port)
    
  115 minutes, about 4000 yen one way, 2-3 round trips per day
* Rishiri (Oshidomari Port) - Rebun (Kafuka Port)
    
  45 minutes, about 2000 yen one way, 1-2 round trips per day
* Rishiri (Kutsugata Port) - Rebun (Kafuka Port)
    
  40 minutes, about 2000 yen one way, 1 round trip per day in summer only

Bringing a [car](e2024.html) from Wakkanai to Rishiri or Rebun by [ferry](e2355.html) costs around 22,000 to 30,000 yen one way. Between Rishiri and Rebun the cost is about 8,000 yen. Online reservations can be made through [Willer](https://willer-travel.com/en/ferry/carrier/69.html?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184). Because of the high cost of bringing a car onto the ferries, it is usually cheaper to rent a car on the islands. Several major car rental companies have outlets on both islands.

Wakkanai can be reached from [Sapporo](e2163.html) by train (5.5 hours, 11,000 yen), air (1 hour, 9,000 to 28,000 yen) or highway bus (6 hours, 6700 yen) and from [Tokyo](e2164.html) by air (2 hours, 25,000 to 50,000 yen). Wakkanai Airport is a 35 minute, 800 yen bus ride from the city center.

#### By air from Sapporo

Hokkaido Air System (HAC), a member of the JAL Group, operates daily [flights](e2365.html) between Rishiri Airport and [Sapporo](e2163.html)'s Okadama Airport. The flight time is one hour. The regular one way fare is about 28,000 yen, while discount fares of around 12,000 yen may be available if you book a few weeks in advance. [How to get to Sapporo](e5306.html).

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](/e/e2196.html).

Please visit the respective island's page for more details about orientation and transportation:

* [Rishiri Island](e6876.html)
* [Rebun Island](e6877.html)