---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6046.html
title: How to get to and around Norikura\: Access, Transportation and Orientation
description: How to get to and around Norikura.
keywords: norikura, mount, mt, norikuradake, kogen, norikurakogen, access, orientation, transportation, directions, get there, bus
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 343
char_count: 2631
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:26:05
---

### How to get to Norikura

Norikura is most commonly accessed from Matsumoto ([how to get to Matsumoto](e6053.html)): take the Matsumoto Electric Railway from [Matsumoto](e6050.html) to Shin-Shimashima Station (30 minutes, 710 yen) and change to an Alpico [bus](e2015.html) to [Norikura Kogen](e6044.html) (45 minutes, 1350 yen). Seat reservations are not possible for either the train or the bus.

From July to October, [buses](e2015.html) depart every 1-2 hours from Norikura Kogen to the bus terminal near the summit of [Mount Norikuradake](e6041.html) (50 minutes, 2350 yen one way, 4600 yen round trip). Seat reservations for these buses are mandatory and can be made through Japan Bus Online ([reserve uphill bus](https://japanbusonline.com/en/Detail/11600380001/0/4202029/4202029/?afcd=MDI=), [reserve downhill bus](https://japanbusonline.com/en/Detail/11600380001/1/4202029/4202029/?afcd=MDI=)) or at the ticket office at Norikura Kogen Tourist Information Center. Alternatively, you can hire a [taxi](e2021.html) (45 minutes, around 10,000 yen one way).

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](/e/e2196.html).

The **Norikura Kogen Tourist Information Center** in [Norikura Kogen](e6044.html) is the main bus terminal in Norikura, where [buses](e2015.html) from [Matsumoto](e6050.html) terminate, and buses up [Mount Norikuradake](e6041.html) depart from. There is also a large parking lot at the center where drivers can leave their [cars](e2024.html) and transfer to a bus, because the road up [Mount Norikuradake](e6041.html) is closed to private cars.

Another transportation hub further down the valley is the **Sawando Bus Terminal**, where most of the local bus lines meet and enable transfers between buses to/from Norikura, [Kamikochi](e6040.html), [Shirahone Onsen](e6042.html) and [Takayama](e5900.html).