---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6151.html
title: Hagi Former Castle Town
description: Visitor guide for Hagi's former castle town.
keywords: hagi, jokamachi, castle, town, samurai
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 897
char_count: 6475
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:36:40
---

During the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1867), [Hagi](e6150.html) prospered as a [castle town](e2422.html) and served as the capital of the Mori Clan, one of the most powerful clans of the time. Mori lords governed present [Yamaguchi](/list/e1239.html) (then known as Choshu) for more than 250 years and played a central role in the [Meiji Restoration](e2130.html) (1868). The lord, his family and his closest retainers resided in the castle, while the [samurai](e2127.html), craftsmen and merchants lived and worked in the town east of it.

Having avoided major disasters since the Edo Period, the basic town plan of Hagi has survived to this day. Although only the ruins of [Hagi Castle](e6152.html) remain, some streets in the downtown area are beautifully preserved, lined by white walls from the feudal age, former samurai mansions and merchant quarters. Several of the mansions and other places of interest such as museums and [temples](e2058.html) are open to the public.

### Old residences

* 

  Kikuya Residence•

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:45)  
  Closed: December 31  
  Admission: 650 yen

  The Kikuya family was a samurai turned merchant family who is well-regarded for their past contributions to Hagi and its people. The Kikuya Residence is the most outstanding of all the old residences in the former [castle](e2296.html) town, and it features some pretty avant garde interior designing for a building with an approximately 350 year history. One example is a room which has sliding doors that are able to turn corners, enabling it to be totally exposed to the [garden](e2099.html) outside.
* 

  Kubota Residence

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 100 yen (Kubota Residence only), 310 yen (combination ticket including eight other residences)

  The Kubota Residence is about 200 years old and belonged to a family in the [kimono](e2101.html) and [sake](e2037.html) business. The spacious house has a large kitchen and multiple [tatami mat](e2007.html) rooms separated by sliding doors that can be opened to join rooms into large spaces. Old tools and lamps from the late [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1867) to the [Meiji Period](e2130.html) (1868-1912) are exhibited.
* 

  Kido Takayoshi Residence

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 100 yen (Kido Residence only), 310 yen (combination ticket including eight other residences)

  This was the birth house of Kido Takayoshi, one of the most influential Japanese statesmen in the late [Edo Period](e2128.html) and early [Meiji Period](e2130.html). The house is about 250 years old and has a small garden, where an over 300 year old pine tree stands.

### Museums

* 

  Hagi Museum•

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Small number of irregular closures  
  Admission: 520 yen

  This well designed museum features maps of past and present [Hagi](e6150.html), as well as dioramas of the castle town. It recounts the history of famous locals such as [Yoshida Shoin](e6156.html). There are also exhibits about the region's agriculture, marine life and geography. Moderate English information is available.
* 

  Kumaya Art Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 16:00  
  Closed: Wednesdays and Thursdays  
  Admission: 700 yen

  The museum consists of several old storehouses, which lend it a nostalgic atmosphere. Exhibits include ink paintings and calligraphy, tea bowls, antiques, folding screens, old coins, and the only piano brought into Japan during the [Edo Period](e2128.html).
* 

  Hagi Uragami Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Mon (or following day if Mon is a [holiday](e2062.html)) and [New Year](e2064.html) holidays  
  Admission: 300 yen (collection), separate fee for temporary exhibitions

  Housed in a modern building, the Hagi Uragami Museum showcases interesting contemporary art and good permanent collections of [Hagiyaki Pottery](e6157.html) and [ukiyo-e](e2291.html) (Japanese woodblock prints). Temporary exhibitions on varying themes are also hosted.
* 

  Hagiyaki Pottery Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 500 yen

  This small museum is located on the second floor of a souvenir shop selling [Hagiyaki Pottery](e6157.html). Valuable works of Hagiyaki, mostly from the 1600s, are on exhibit. The museum stands just outside the entrance gates of the [Hagi Castle Ruins](e6152.html).

### Others

* 

  [Hagi Castle Ruins](e6152.html)

  Hours: 8:00 to 18:30 (shorter hours from November to March)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 220 yen

  Ruins of the former [Hagi Castle](e6152.html) are located in what is now Shizuki Park, at the northwestern tip of the city. Not much of the [castle](e2296.html) is left today - only some moats, castle walls and stone foundations survive.
* 

  Enseiji Temple

  Hours: 8:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 200 yen

  Enseiji is a rare extant example of a [temple](e2058.html) and a [shrine](e2059.html) coexisting at a single location. This coexistence used to be common until [Shinto](e2056.html) and [Buddhism](e2055.html) were forcefully separated during the [Meiji Period](e2130.html). On the temple grounds visitors can inspect a large stone lantern with movable stands to withstand earthquakes. Japan's first prime minister, Ito Hirobumi, learned reading and calligraphy here when he was a child.
* 

  Kikugahama Beach

  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free

  This pleasant [sand beach](e2461.html) is located at the foot of the [Hagi Castle Ruins](e6152.html). Relax on the beach while enjoying views of the sea and the nearby 143 meter tall Mount Shizuki.

The former castle town is about two kilometers from Higashi-Hagi Station. From the station it can be reached in about ten minutes by bicycle or about 30 minutes on foot. It can also be accessed by the [Maru Bus](e6155.html) buses.

[How to get to and around Hagi](e6155.html)