---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6550.html
title: Chichibu Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Chichibu, a rural city in the western part of Saitama Prefecture.
keywords: chichibu, travel, sightseeing, trip, guide, tourist, information, visit, visitor, tourism
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 280
char_count: 2546
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:47:39
---

Chichibu (秩父) is a city in [Saitama Prefecture](/list/e1213.html), known for its impressive [shrines](e2059.html) and beautiful nature, including mountains with [hiking](e2427.html) opportunities. The town's biggest annual event is the [Chichibu Night Festival](e6552.html), which takes place every December and is ranked among the top three [festivals](e2063.html) featuring floats alongside [Kyoto](e2158.html)'s [Gion Matsuri](e3942.html) and the [Takayama Matsuri](e5909.html).

The forested mountains surrounding the town has for many centuries been an important center of mountain worship, with [shrines](e2059.html) existing today that continue these ancient traditions. Reached in just 90 minutes by [train](e2016.html) from central [Tokyo](e2164.html), today Chichibu attracts many visitors who wish to escape from the hustle and bustle of the metropolis.

* [](/e/e6552.html)

  1

  Festival

  [Chichibu Night Festival•](/e/e6552.html)

  Popular festival with fireworks.

  4.6

  

  22
* [](/e/e6553.html)

  2

  Shrine

  [Mitsumine Shrine•](/e/e6553.html)

  Beautiful shrine on a forested mountain.

  4.4

  

  25
* [](/e/e6555.html)

  3

  Flowers

  [Hitsujiyama Park](/e/e6555.html)

  Park known for its pink moss festival in spring.

  3.7

  

  32
* [](/e/e6554.html)

  4

  Shrine

  [Chichibu Shrine](/e/e6554.html)

  Home of the Chichibu Night Festival.

  3.4

  

  37
* [](/e/e6556.html)

  5

  Scenic Ride

  [Nagatoro River Cruises](/e/e6556.html)

  Cruises along the Arakawa River in traditional boats

  13
* [](/e/e6557.html)

  6

  Shrine

  [Hodosan Shrine](/e/e6557.html)

  Pretty shrine near the Nagatoro river cruises.

  11
* [](/e/e6558.html)

  7

  Amusement Park

  [Moominvalley Park](/e/e6558.html)

  Theme park about the Moomins near Chichibu.

  6

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Chichibu](/e/e6550.html)

[Getting to and around Chichibu](/e/e6551.html)
[See access info](/e/e6551.html)