---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6201.html
title: Kairakuen Garden
description: Visitor guide for Kairakuen, one of Japan's three great landscape gardens.
keywords: mito, ibaraki, kairakuen, garden, park, plum, trees, tree, blossoms
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 470
char_count: 3396
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:22:54
---

The Kobuntei looms above some of the garden's many plum trees

Ranked among Japan's three finest landscape [gardens](e2099.html), Kairakuen (偕楽園) is most famous for its over 3000 [plum trees](e2013.html). The garden is located in [Mito](e6200.html), the capital of [Ibaraki Prefecture](/list/e1211.html).

Kairakuen was built relatively recently in [1841](e2128.html) by the local lord Tokugawa Nariaki. Unlike Japan's other two great landscape gardens, [Kenrokuen](e4200.html) and [Korakuen](e5701.html), Kairakuen served not only the ruling lord but was also open to the public. Kairakuen means "park to be enjoyed together".

An extensive plum tree grove makes up a considerable part of Kairakuen

While worth a visit throughout the year, Kairakuen is particularly popular during the [plum blossom](e2013.html) season, which usually takes place from late February through March. The garden features a forest of 3000 trees of over one hundred different plum tree varieties with white, pink and red blossoms. The Mito Plum Festival (Mito Ume Matsuri) is held annually from mid February to late March (February 11 to March 20, 2025).

Besides the [plum trees](e2013.html) Kairakuen also features a bamboo grove, cedar woods and the **Kobuntei**, a traditional Japanese-style building. Like the whole park, the Kobuntei has always been open to the public and served educational and recreational purposes. A nice view of Kairakuen and nearby Senba Lake can be enjoyed from the building's top floor.

Located next to the park stands **Tokiwa Shrine**. Founded in 1874, it enshrines the spirits of Tokugawa Mitsukuni and Nariaki, two prominent former local lords.

Tokiwa Shrine

There are several [bus](e2015.html) lines that connect Mito Station with Kairakuen. Relatively frequent and convenient are the buses by Kanto Tetsudo that leave from the north exit of Mito Station and are bound for Kairakuen bus stop (15 minutes, 270 yen one way, covered by the [1-day bus pass](e6202.html), 1-2 buses/hour).

Alternatively, Kairakuen can be reached from Mito Station in a pleasant 30 minute walk along Senba Lake.

Note that during the peak of the [plum](e2013.html) festival, some trains on the JR Joban Line stop at the temporarily served Kairakuen Station, which stands just next to the garden.

[How to get to and around Mito](e6202.html)