---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6461.html
title: Tokyo Game Show 2025
description: About the Tokyo Game Show held at the Makuhari Messe Convention Center.
keywords: tokyo, game, show, fair, show, convention, big, sight, site, odaiba
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 2790
char_count: 19555
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:57:06
---

**The 2025 Tokyo Game Show is scheduled for September 25-28**
**It will be open to the general public on September 27-28**

The Tokyo Game Show is an annual trade show for video game developers held at [Makuhari Messe](e3046.html) convention center just outside of [Tokyo](e2164.html). Held since 1996, it is one of the world's biggest game shows, which companies use as a venue to launch new products and show off their latest innovations and technology. The show is held over four days. The first two days are business days for invited members of the industry and media, while the third and fourth day are open to the general public.

The Tokyo Game Show is split up into different areas, including the general exhibition area where you can see the latest game debuts and trailers, as well as try out the newest demos from a wide range of developers. Other areas cover interests such as smartphone games, virtual reality and game schools.

The Tokyo Game Show is held in [Makuhari Messe](e3046.html), a 5-10 minute walk from JR Kaihin-Makuhari Station. From Tokyo Station, Kaihin-Makuhari Station can be reached by [rapid](e2016.html) (30 minutes) or [local](e2016.html) train (40 minutes) along the JR Keiyo Line (580 yen). There are also a few [limited express](e2016.html#category) trains covering the distance in 25 minutes and for 1340 yen one way (1600 yen without prior seat reservation). Note that the platform of the JR Keiyo Line at Tokyo Station is located a ten minute walk from the station's other platforms.