---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6021.html
title: How to get to and around Obuse\: Access, Transportation and Orientation
description: How to get to and around Obuse.
keywords: obuse, nagano, access, orientation, transportation, directions, train, bus
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 387
char_count: 2764
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:32:36
---

### How to get to Obuse

#### From Nagano   *([how to get to Nagano](e6003.html))*

Nagaden (Nagano Electric Railways) operates two local trains per hour between [Nagano](e6000.html) (underground Nagaden Nagano Station, next to JR Nagano Station) and [Obuse](e6020.html) (35 minutes, 680 yen). Additionally, there are a few [limited express](e2016.html#category) trains along the same route (25 minutes, 780-1080 yen, departures every 90 minutes). Nagaden trains are not covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html). From Obuse Station it is a 10-15 minute walk to the town center.

#### From Yamanouchi   *([how to get to Yamanouchi](e6027.html))*

Nagaden (Nagano Electric Railways) operates one or two local trains per hour between [Yudanaka](e6027.html) Station in [Yamanouchi](e6025.html) and [Obuse](e6020.html). The trip takes 30-45 minutes, costs 610 yen, and requires a change of trains at Shinshunakano Station. Additionally, there are a few direct [limited express](e2016.html#category) trains along the same route (20 minutes, 710-1010 yen, departures every 1-2 hours). Nagaden trains are not covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html). From Obuse Station it is a 10-15 minute walk to the town center.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](/e/e2196.html).

Most of [Obuse](e6020.html)'s attractions are located about a ten minute walk from Obuse Station, and are within easy walking distance of each other around Obuse's compact [town center](e6023.html). [Ganshoin Temple](e6022.html) and the [Floral Garden Obuse](e6023.html) lie further away but are still within walking distance for good walkers.

The **Obuse Town Bus**, a local [bus](e2015.html) for tourists, operates on selected days from early April to mid November (weekends, [public holidays](e2062.html) and daily during busy seasons). It runs once per hour (more frequently during busy seasons) and stops at all of the major attractions around Obuse including Obuse Station, Ganshoin Temple and the Floral Garden outside of the town center. A one day pass for the bus costs 600 yen.