---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6042.html
title: Shirahone Onsen Travel Guide
description: About Shirahone hot spring town in Nagano Prefecture.
keywords: japan, shirahone, onsen, hot, spring, springs, chubu, sangaku, national, park, awayu, awa, yu, nagano
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 504
char_count: 3669
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:48:58
---

Awanoyu Ryokan's mixed outdoor bath

Shirahone Onsen (白骨温泉, literally "white bone hot spring") is a small [onsen town](e2292.html) in the [Northern Japan Alps](e6043.html). The town is a loose collection of a dozen or so [ryokan](e2029.html) along the slopes of a steep valley, which lies near famous alpine nature spots such as [Kamikochi](e6040.html) and [Norikura](e6045.html). Shirahone Onsen gets its name from its milky white spring water, which is nearly opaque with magnesium and calcium sediments and is believed to relieve gastrointestinal ailments.

There is one [public bath](e2074.html) in Shirahone Onsen. Furthermore, some of the town's [ryokan](e2029.html) open their baths to day trip visitors during the day for a few hundred yen. Among them is the [Awanoyu](e6042.html#awanoyu) with its large mixed outdoor bath that is often seen in tourist promotional materials about Shirahone Onsen.

The following is a selection of [hot spring baths](e2292.html), which open to day trip visitors:

* 

  Awanoyu••

  Hours: 10:30 to 14:00 (entry until 13:30)
    
  Closed: Wednesdays and Thursdays
    
  Admission: 1000 yen

  Awanoyu Ryokan is home to Shirahone Onsen's iconic, gender mixed outdoor bath. Its milky water is nearly opaque, has a nice silky feel and is only lukewarm by hot spring standards. Women are allowed to wrap themselves in towels if they wish. There is also a separate women-only outdoor bath and segregated indoor baths for both genders.
* 

  Shirahone Onsen Public Notemburo•

  Hours: 10:00 to 16:00 (weekdays), 9:00 to 17:00 (weekends and [holidays](e2062.html))
    
  Closed: Thursdays and from late November to late April
    
  Admission: 700 yen

  Reopened in April 2019 after year-long repair works, this public hot spring bath is accessed by a long staircase that leads from the road down towards the river on the valley floor. Its gender segregated-outdoor baths lie right along the riverside, where you can relax to the sounds of rushing water and nature as you unwind in the outdoors.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

#### By bus from Matsumoto   *([how to get to Matsumoto](e6053.html))*

Take the Matsumoto Electric Railway from [Matsumoto](e6050.html) to Shin-Shimashima Station (30 minutes), change to a [bus](e2015.html) to the Sawando Bus Terminal (40 minutes) and change to another bus to [Shirahone Onsen](e6044.html) (20 minutes). The entire trip takes 100-120 minutes and costs 2900 yen one way. There are only around four connections per day.

#### By car

Shirahone Onsen lies a few kilometers off of National Route 158, which connects [Matsumoto](e6050.html) and [Takayama](e5900.html). Alternatively, Shirahone can be access from [Norikura Kogen](e6044.html) via the Kamikochi Norikura Super Rindo, a former toll road that is now free to use.