---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6830.html
title: Furano Ski Resort
description: Visitor guide for the Furano Ski Resort, a leading ski resort on Hokkaido.
keywords: furano, ski, resort, snowboard, snow, area, resort
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1840
char_count: 11913
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:04:36
---

Furano Ski Resort (富良野スキー場, Furano Skijō) is one of [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html)'s famous [snow resorts](e2262.html). Located in a town known for its [flowers](e6826.html) and television dramas, the resort offers an exciting attraction for the cold winter months. It is a good place for a multiday family snow trip as there are lots of varied runs and other family-oriented snow attractions.

The resort consists of two connected peaks, each offering long, fast runs that have been used for World Cup races. There are also a number of wider, gentler slopes for beginners.

In addition to skiing and snowboarding, Furano Ski Resort offers the Furano Snowland where you can try other snow activities, such as snow rafting and snowmobiling.

At the base of the ski resort stand two large Prince Hotels with rear entrances leading directly to the ski slopes. Furthermore, there many small [pensions](e2025_pension.html), family-run lodgings with Western-style rooms that resemble B&Bs and are a pleasant and reasonable way to stay in [Furano](e6825.html).

Furano Ski Resort

Furano Ski Resort features long runs with good powder and the Furano Snowland for other snow related activities. Lift ticket prices are lower in the shoulder seasons.

Season\*

**Late November to early May**  
(November 29, 2025 to May 6, 2026)

Lifts

11 lifts

Tickets

Full day
8000 yen

Half day
7200 yen

Nighter
2900-3600 yen

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

The Furano Ski Resort is located three kilometers west of Furano Station and can be reached in 5-10 minutes by [car](e2024.html) or [taxi](e2021.html). Buses from Asahikawa Airport and [Sapporo](e2163.html) also stop at the base of the ski area and Furano Station.

[How to get to and around Furano](e6829.html)