---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6529.html
title: Musashi Ichinomiya Hikawa Shrine
description: Visitor guide for Musashi Ichinomiya Hikawa Shrine in Saitama, a major shrine in the Kanto Region which used to be the head shrine of the former Musashi Province.
keywords: musashi, ichinomiya, hikawa, shrine, omiya, saitama
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1909
char_count: 12438
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:37:06
---

Dance stage and Haiden (Praying hall) in the background

Musashi Ichinomiya Hikawa Shrine (武蔵一宮氷川神社, Musashi Ichinomiya Hikawa Jinja) is a popular [shrine](e2059.html) in [Saitama City](e6525.html), a 20-30 minute walk from Omiya Station. It used to be the head [Shinto](e2056.html) shrine of former Musashi Province ("Musashi Ichinomiya" literally means "top shrine of Musashi"), which covered present day Greater Tokyo, including large parts of [Saitama Prefecture](/list/e1213.html). It is this shrine which gave Omiya (which literally means "great shrine") its name.

The [shrine](e2059.html) is set in lush greenery and has many auxiliary buildings on its grounds. A long approach from the south leads to the shrine's precincts, where a tall vermilion torii gate and several secondary shrines are located. Proceeding north takes visitors to a bridge across a pond. Here, the two-storied Romon Gate marks the entrance to the main shrine grounds, where the main hall (honden), the praying hall (haiden) and a dance stage (maiden) stand.

Musashi Ichinomiya is the most important of many Hikawa shrines in Japan, which enshrine Susanoo, the God of the sea and storms. Additional structures have been added to the shrine during its history, and its current main buildings date back to 1940. For most of the year, this [shrine](e2059.html) has a tranquil environment. However, during special occasions, such as during the [New Year holidays](e2064.html), it becomes one of the most visited shrines in Japan.

Romon Gate

Hikawa Shrine is a ten minute walk from Kita Omiya Station (2 minutes, 160 yen from Omiya Station by Tobu Noda Line). Alternatively, it can be reached in a 20-30 minute walk from Omiya Station.

[How to get to and around Saitama](e6526.html)