---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6311.html
title: Shuzenji Onsen (Shuzenji Hot Spring)
description: Visitor guide for Shuzenji Onsen, a hot spring resort on the Izu Peninsula, Japan.
keywords: shuzenji, hot, spring, springs, onsen, spa, izu
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1714
char_count: 11130
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:48:08
---

Shuzenji Onsen (修善寺温泉) is one of the oldest and most famous [hot spring](e2292.html) resort towns on the [Izu Peninsula](e6310.html). Located in the hilly center of the peninsula, it lacks the ocean views of many nearby onsen towns but attracts visitors with its history and attractive setting.

Shuzenji Onsen was named after Shuzenji Temple (修禅寺) at the town center. [Kobo Daishi](e4901.html), one of Japan's most important religious persons, founded the [temple](e2058.html) about 1200 years ago. Today, it is a [Zen Buddhist](e2055.html) temple.

Kobo Daishi is also said to have created Shuzenji's most prominent hot spring, Tokko-no-yu, located in the middle of the river bed that runs through the town center. Today, Tokko-no-yu is used as a foot bath.

Other attractions in Shuzenji's town center include a small bamboo forest, several historic [ryokan](e2029.html) and a few tastefully designed shops and cafes. [Onsen bathing](e2292.html) is possible at the town's [public bath](e2074.html), Hakoyu. Furthermore, several of the town's [ryokan](e2029.html) open their baths to non-staying guests during the day for a fee (from around 1000 yen).

Shuzenji's small bamboo forest

Take the Izuhakone Railway from Mishima Station to Shuzenji Station (35 minutes, 550 yen one way, frequent departures). Alternatively, there are a few direct JR limited express Odoriko trains that run all the way from Tokyo to Shuzenji (around 2 hours, about 4500 yen one way). The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) does not cover trains between Mishima and Shuzenji.

From Shuzenji Station, it is still a 5-10 minute [bus](e2015.html) or [taxi](e2021.html) ride to the hot spring town. Take a frequent [bus](e2015.html) bound for Shuzenji Onsen (修善寺温泉) or Nijino Sato (虹の郷) and get off at Shuzenji Onsen (260 yen one way). A [taxi](e2021.html) ride costs about 1300 yen one way.

[How to get to and around the Izu Peninsula](e6305.html)