---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6003.html
title: Tokyo to Nagano\: How to get to and around Nagano
description: How to get to and around Nagano City.
keywords: nagano, city, access, orientation, transportation, train, bus, shinkansen
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 1908
char_count: 12893
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:23:09
---

From/To:

TokyoOsakaKyotoNagoya

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

[Tokyo](e2164.html) and [Nagano](e6000.html) are connected with each other by the [Hokuriku Shinkansen](e2018_nagano.html). The one way trip takes 80-100 minutes, costs about 8,000 yen and is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and [JR East Nagano Niigata Area Pass](e2361_nagano_niigata.html). There are multiple trains per hour.

[Book Now](/rail.html?origin=Tokyo&destination=Nagano)

Multiple bus companies operate frequent daytime [highway buses](e2366.html) between [Tokyo](e2164.html) and Nagano Station. The one way trip takes about 3.5 hours and costs between 1840 and 5100 yen depending on company and date of travel. Online reservations can be made through [Willer](https://willer-travel.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/nagano/nagano/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184) and [Japan Bus Online](https://japanbusonline.com/en/AreaSearch2/3130000/4202011/?afcd=MDI=).

[Book Now](https://willer-travel.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/nagano/nagano/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184)

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

The city's transport hub is **Nagano Station**, which is served by all trains in the region, including the [JR Hokuriku Shinkansen](e2018_nagano.html), other JR trains, Shinano Railway and the Nagano Electric Railway (Nagaden) which runs from its underground station next to JR Nagano Station to [Yamanouchi](e6025.html). Nagano Station is also at the center of a [bus](e2015.html) network that provides connections to [Zenkoji Temple](e6001.html) and the former [Olympic facilities](e6002.html).

The **Togakushi area** with its [shrines](e6005.html) and [ninja related attractions](e6006.html) is located about an hour by [bus](e2015.html) in the forested mountains northwest of the city center. The area's attractions are spread across several kilometers, and good walkers can use hiking trails to walk in between them.

[Rental cars](e2024.html) are a good option to cover more of the city in less time. Most companies have outlets around Nagano Station.