---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6551.html
title: Tokyo to Chichibu\: How to get to and around Chichibu
description: Access, Orientation and transportation in Chichibu\: how to get to and around Chichibu.
keywords: chichibu, orientation, transportation, access, get there, directions, train, seibu
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 479
char_count: 3654
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:10:43
---

Direct "Red Arrow" [limited express](e2016.html) trains require about 80 minutes to get from [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s Ikebukuro Station to Seibu Chichibu Station. Seat reservations are mandatory. The one way fare is 1700 yen. Alternatively, the journey takes about 20 minutes longer and requires a transfer of trains at Hanno Station along the way, but costs only 800 yen if done by [express](e2016.html) trains. Note that several [discount tickets](#section_passes) are available for visitors to Chichibu.

Take a local [JR](e2019.html) train or [shinkansen](e2018.html) from Tokyo to Kumagaya (35 minutes, around 3500 yen by shinkansen or 70 minutes, 1170 yen by local train from Tokyo Station) and transfer to the Chichibu Railway for Chichibu (70 minutes, around 950 yen). The JR section of the journey is covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and [JR Tokyo Wide Pass](e2361_06.html), but the Chichibu Railway section is not.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

[Chichibu](e6550.html) covers a relatively large area comprised of a natural basin where the town center lies, surrounded by forested mountainous. The largest concentration of attractions is located around the town center, within walking distance of the two main railway stations, **Chichibu Station** and **Seibu-Chichibu Station**. [Mitsumine Shrine](e6553.html) can be reached by [bus](e2015.html) in a little over an hour. Alternatively, a [rental car](e2024.html) can provide comfort and flexibility. Multiple outlets can be found in central Chichibu.

Inside the Seibu-Chichibu Station complex, travelers can find the "Matsuri no Yu", a modern [public bath](e2074.html) with a variety of different indoor and outdoor baths themed after the [Edo Period](e2128.html), as well as a variety of shops and food options.

Matsuri no Yu, a public bath adjacent to Seibu-Chichibu Station

Various discount tickets are available for visiting [Chichibu](e6550.html):

* **Seibu 1-Day Pass (1000 yen)**
    
  This pass is valid on all Seibu train lines (except the Tamagawa Line) on one calendar day (midnight to midnight), including on trains to Seibu Chichibu Station. A supplement fee (900 yen one way) has to be paid when using [limited express](e2016.html) trains.
* **Seibu 1-Day Pass + Nagatoro (1500 yen)**
    
  In addition to the value offered by the above-listed "Seibu 1-Day Pass", this pass includes unlimited use of the Chichibu Railway in the Chichibu region (between Mitsumineguchi and Nogami).