---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e6505.html
title: Tokyo to Kawagoe\: How to get to and around Kawagoe
description: How to get to and around Kawagoe.
keywords: kawagoe, orientation, transportation, directions, access, get there, train, seibu, tobu, jr, bus
content_type: regional_guide
word_count: 544
char_count: 3946
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:16:20
---

[Kawagoe](e6500.html) is connected with central [Tokyo](e2164.html) by three [railway companies](e2019.html): Tobu, Seibu and JR.

Kawagoe Station, Kawagoe-shi Station and [Ikebukuro Station](e3038.html) are connected by frequent [trains](e2016.html) along the Tobu Tojo Line (30 minutes by express trains, 490 yen one way).

The "Kawagoe Discount Pass" is an exclusive offer for foreign tourists that provides a round trip between Ikebukuro and Kawagoe for only 710 yen. It is valid on one calendar day and can be purchased at Ikebukuro Station. The pass also provides discounts at a few selected establishments in Kawagoe. A "premium" version for 1050 yen also covers unlimited rides on selected local buses. The passes are not available to residents of Japan.

Hon-Kawagoe Station and [Seibu Shinjuku Station](e3011.html) are connected by frequent [express](e2016.html) trains along the Seibu Shinjuku Line (50-60 minutes, 520 yen one way). In addition, there are 1-2 [limited express](e2016.html) trains per hour that take only around 45 minutes and cost 1120 yen.

Non-Japanese passport holders can buy a round trip ticket for Seibu trains between Tokyo and Kawagoe for only 700 yen through [Klook](https://www.klook.com/activity/14780-seibu-kawagoe-rail-pass-ikebukuro-tokyo/?aID=12675). The ticket needs to be picked up at Seibu Ikebukuro Station.

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

Kawagoe Station and Shinjuku Station are also connected by frequent direct rapid trains via Omiya along the [JR Saikyo/Kawagoe Line](e2373.html) (55 minutes, 770 yen one way). This trip is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html).

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

[Kawagoe](e6500.html) has three railway stations. **Hon-Kawagoe Station** (Seibu) is slightly closer to the main sights than **Kawagoe Station** (JR and Tobu) and **Kawagoe-shi Station** (Tobu). The city can be leisurely traveled on foot or by bicycle. The [Warehouse District](e6501.html) is a 10-15 minute walk from Hon-Kawagoe Station. [Kitain](e6502.html) and [Honmaru Goten](e6504.html) are both about a 10 minute walk from the Warehouse District and from each other.

There is also a network of [buses](e2015.html) which connects Kawagoe Station and Hon-Kawagoe Station with the city's main sights. Among the bus lines are two loop buses for tourists that run along similar routes and are operated by separate companies:

The **Tobu Koedo Loop Bus** provides access to all the main attractions of the city, and a one-day pass costs 400 yen. The buses make their round trips roughly every hour on weekdays and every 30 minutes on weekends and [national holidays](e2062.html).

The alternative is the **Co-Edo Loop Bus**, which is a vintage-looking shuttle bus. Single trips cost 220 yen, while a day of unlimited travel costs 600 yen (400 yen on the 8th, 18th and 28th of each month). The buses operate 1-2 times per hour on two different routes.