---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7996.html
title: Honma Museum of Art
description: Visitor guide for the Honma Museum of Art in Sakata, Yamagata Prefecture.
keywords: honma, museum, museums, art, gallery, galleries, garden, gardens, japanese, tourism, history, sakata. yamagata
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 381
char_count: 2743
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:19:24
---

The Honma Museum of Art (本間美術館, Honma Bijutsukan) is an art [museum](e2428.html) in [Sakata](e7990.html). Its main attractions are a [Japanese garden](e2099.html) that lies adjacent to the art museum building, and a grand [Edo Period](e2128.html) villa that overlooks the garden. The villa is spacious and lavish and along with the picturesque garden, holds an atmosphere reminiscent of past centuries.

The garden and villa were originally constructed in 1813 as a holiday home for the head of the Honma family, a prominent merchant family in the area whose [former residence](e7993.html) can be visited in a different part of the town. The traditional [garden](e2099.html) is a strolling garden with a central pond and a winding network of walking trails that provide constantly changing, scenic views.

Looking out from inside the villa

The atmospheric villa is open to visitors and showcases a selection of exhibits from past centuries. It also houses a cafe. On the second floor there is a large [tatami room](e2007.html) with many windows from which great views can be had of the beautiful [garden](e2099.html) below.

The museum itself was opened in 1947 as the first privately-owned art museum in [postwar](e2124.html) Japan. The villa was originally the museum's main building before it was replaced by a larger concrete building in 1968. Today the museum hosts rotating, temporary exhibitions that change every few months and include historical artifacts from the area and wider Japan. Popular exhibitions from the museum's extensive collection of [dolls](e2104.html) are also periodically held.

The modern museum building

The Honma Museum is located a five minute walk from JR Sakata Station.

[How to get to and around Sakata](e7991.html)