---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7115.html
title: Tsuboya Pottery District
description: Visitor guide for Tsuboya, a district of Naha with many pottery stores.
keywords: tsuboya, pottery, district, street, naha, okinawa
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 2040
char_count: 13871
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:32:56
---

Tsuboya (壺屋) is a district in central [Naha](e7102.html) that is the center of Tsuboya Pottery, [Okinawa](/list/e1247.html)'s most famous [pottery](e2329.html) type. The neighborhood is home to a variety of attractions including Tsuboya Odori Pottery Street and the Tsuboya Pottery Museum.

Okinawan pottery dates back to the era of the [Ryukyu Kingdom](e7125.html) before Okinawa was incorporated into Japan. The pottery is made of indigenous clay and was initially crafted all across the kingdom until all pottery manufacturing was moved to Naha as part of the centralization of the country's industry in the 17th century. Since then, Tsuboya has remained the heart of Okinawa's pottery industry, being today home to a many workshops and shops selling the wares.

A selection of pottery inside one of the district's stores

**Tsuboya Odori Pottery Street** is a stone-paved road that winds approximately 300 meters through the neighborhood and constitutes its epicenter. The street is lined by shops purveying many different types of wares from crockery and cutlery to vases and even urns. The different stores sell varying interpretations of the old Okinawan craft, with some focusing on traditionally styled items while others specialize in decidedly modern wares. The street is picturesque and makes for a pleasant place to stroll even for those not looking to shop.

The **Tsuboya Pottery Museum** stands at the western end of Tsuboya Odori Pottery Street and displays a collection of Tsuboya pottery from different eras, illustrating the history and techniques involved in the craft. In addition to its impressive display of wares across the centuries, the museum also houses a reproduction of a traditional Okinawan house, where it is shown how Tsuboya pottery was utilized in a typical household.

Pottery wares and the traditional Okinawan house reconstruction inside the pottery museum

The Tsuboya Pottery District is located about 400 meters south of [Kokusaidori Street](e7114.html) in central [Naha](e7102.html). One end of the district is located at the end of the Heiwadori shopping arcade, which begins on Kokusaidori. The other end of the district can be reached in a ten minute walk from Asato Station along the Okinawa Monorail.

[How to get to and around Naha](e7118.html)