---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7777.html
title: Spa Resort Hawaiians
description: Visitor guide for the Spa Resort Hawaiians, a Hawaii-themed water park in Iwaki City, Fukushima Prefecture.
keywords: spa, resort, hawaiian, joban, center, hula, girls, iwaki, fukushima
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 574
char_count: 4003
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:05:37
---

Spa Resort Hawaiians is a one-stop water park, [onsen](e2292.html) and entertainment facility with a Hawaiian theme. It is located in [Iwaki](e7775.html), [Fukushima Prefecture](/list/e1208.html), and was formerly known as Joban Hawaiian Center. Inaugurated in 1966, it is considered the first [theme park](e2067.html) to be built in Japan. Over the years, the resort has been upgraded to meet with times, and it is still today a highly visited destination.

The most famous attraction of the resort are the Hawaiian dance performances by the **Hula Girls**, the dance team whose name is synonymous with the resort ever since it opened. In the 1960s, [Iwaki](e7775.html) was a coal mining town facing crisis when oil became the predominant energy source in Japan. The resort was built and the Hula Girls entertained to draw in tourists - the new source of income for the town.

In the aftermath of the [2011 earthquake and tsunami](/news/0018.html) and nuclear plant accident, the Hula Girls visited numerous evacuation centers along the tsunami-hit Pacific Coast to encourage their inhabitants. They also traveled all over Japan to perform and invite people to visit Iwaki. They were thus seen by many as a symbol of hope and recovery for the affected regions.

Hula Girls

The resort is divided into multiple sections:

The **Water Park** is the main area where the indoor pools, water slides and the dance stage are located. Here, a Hawaiian atmosphere is recreated with pineapple plants and other tropical vegetation, and staff and hotel guests in Hawaiian outfits. Step outdoors and you will find **Spa Garden Pareo**, a water playground with outdoor pools, deckchairs, jacuzzis and a sauna.

The **Spring Park** is one of two [hot spring](e2292.html) areas that draw their spring water from Yumoto Onsen. It features lukewarm indoor pools where both genders can enjoy a dip in swimsuits, as well as regular, gender-separated hot spring baths where swimsuits are not allowed.

Spring Park

The other hot spring area is **Edo Jowa Yoichi**, a gender-separated, large outdoor bath with an [Edo Period](e2128.html) theme, which is said to be the largest single outdoor bath in Japan. The bath and surroundings are designed to provide an authentic onsen experience. A 15 minute shadow show (kage shibai) is performed every night that guests can enjoy whilst taking a hot bath.

**Vir Port** is where guests get to attend a Hawaiian dance lesson, enjoy a massage or facial, or take part in aqua exercise. [Restaurants](e2036.html) and [accommodation](e2025.html) (at Hotel Hawaiians or the Monolith Tower) are also available at the resort, making it a complete destination to spend a relaxing vacation. Furthermore, the resort includes a nearby 27-hole [golf](e2082.html) course.

The Hula Girls dancing to a capacity crowd at the Beach Theater

The resort runs free, hourly shuttle buses to/from Yumoto Station (15 minutes). In addition, it also runs free buses for staying guests all the way to/from [Tokyo](e2164.html) (3 hours) and [Yokohama](e2156.html) (3.5 hours). Advance reservations are required for the buses to/from Tokyo and Yokohama.

[How to get to and around Iwaki](e7776.html)