---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7132.html
title: Orion Happy Park Beer Brewery
description: Visitor guide for the Orion Happy Park in Nago, Okinawa, a beer brewery open to the public.
keywords: orion, happy, park, beer, brewery, tour, nago, okinawa
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 1987
char_count: 13371
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:33:40
---

The Orion Beer brewery in Nago

Orion Beer is the most famous [beer](e2037_beer.html) in [Okinawa](/list/e1247.html) and easily available at [restaurants](e2040.html) across the prefecture. The beer is brewed in a brewery in Nago City in the north of the [Okinawa Main Island](e7101.html). One part of the brewery, called Orion Happy Park, is open to the public and the meeting point for tours of the brewery. It also features a shop, restaurant and small history gallery.

Paid tours of the brewery take about one hour and are conducted in [Japanese](e621.html). An English guidebook is available. Advance reservations can be made online. The tours cover the history of Orion Beer, the ingredients and process of beer making, views into various factory halls, including onto the bottling lines, and a 20 minute tasting session at the end.

Brewery tour

The Orion Happy Park is located near the southeastern edge of central Nago City in the north of the [Okinawa Main Island](e7101.html).

### By bus

Take [highway bus](e2366.html) number 111 or 117 or the Yanbaru Express from Naha to Nago Bus Terminal (90 minutes, 1650-2140 yen from Naha Bus Center; 105 minutes, 1650-2230 yen from Naha Airport; 1-2 buses/hour) and transfer to bus number 65 (or 66 in the opposite direction), 70, 77 or 120 for a ten minute ride (160 yen, multiple connections per hour) to Nangusuku-Iriguchi bus stop (名護城入口). The Orion Happy Park is located a short walk from the bus stop.

### By car

By [car](e2024.html), take the [Okinawa Expressway](e2354.html) from Naha all the way to its northern end near Nago (1040 yen one way) and then follow regular roads to the Orion Happy Park. In total, the journey takes about 90-120 minutes one way (more during rush hours). Note that Japan has very strict drinking and driving laws.

[How to get to and around Okinawa Honto](e7116.html)