---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7729.html
title: Takayu Onsen
description: Visitor guide for Takayu Onsen, a popular hot spring resort town on the outskirts of Fukushima City.
keywords: takayu, hot, springs, fukushima, tamagoyu
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 364
char_count: 2665
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:48:29
---

The Tamagoyu bath at Tamagoyu Ryokan

Takayu Onsen (高湯温泉) is a small [hot spring](e2292.html) town halfway up the [Azuma Mountains](e7754.html) in [Fukushima City](e7725.html). First developed around 400 years ago, the town now consists of about a dozen [ryokan](e2029.html) huddled near the entrance to the [Bandai Azuma Skyline](e7754.html) sightseeing road.

The town's celebrated [hot spring water](e2292_water.html) emerges from ten different springs around the town. The strongly acidic water is rich in hydrogen sulfide, which results in a slightly milky, blue water and a distinctive sulfuric smell. In order to maintain the high quality of the water, many [ryokan](e2029.html) channel it directly and unadulterated into their baths.

Many of the ryokan open up their baths to non-staying guests during the day for a small fee. The most famous bath among them is the historical **Tamagoyu**, a small wooden bath house with one pool each per gender. There is also a [public bath house](e2074.html), the **Attakayu**, and a free outdoor foot bath at the center of the small town.

Inside the historical Tamagoyu

[Buses](e2015.html) operate every 3-4 hours between Fukushima Station (West Exit) and Takayu Onsen. The one way trip takes about 30 minutes and costs 840 yen. Alternatively, a [rental car](e2024.html) may be more convenient especially if you also plan to visit other places in the [Azuma Mountains](e7754.html). Rental car outlets can be found around Fukushima Station.

[How to get to and around Fukushima](e7726.html)