---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7464.html
title: Minakami Outdoor Activities
description: Basic introduction to thw outdoor activities available in Minakami.
keywords: minakami, outdoor, activities, sports, canyoning, rafting, biking, hiking, skiing, snowboarding, snow, resort, resorts
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 659
char_count: 4559
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:31:37
---

The mountainous and forested setting of [Minakami](e7460.html) contributes well to its image as an outdoor sports haven and one of the top adventure destinations in Japan. In the winter the town's steep mountain slopes become covered in deep snow, and the half dozen or so snow resorts in the area open up for [skiing](e2262.html), snowboarding, cross country skiing and snowshoeing.

Come April the spring melt from all that snow swells the Tone River running through [Minakami](e7460.html), creating ideal conditions for a number of river sports such as whitewater rafting, kayaking and canyoning. Also offered during the warmer months are bungee jumping, mountain biking and [hiking](e2327.html), as well as new adventure sports that are continuously being added.

Most activities are only available as either half day or full day guided tours, and during specific seasons. English speaking guides are available for most tours and activities.

### Attractions

* 

  Whitewater Rafting

  Season: April to November  
  Fee: Half day tours from 9,000 yen, full day from 16,000 yen

  Multiple companies run whitewater rafting tours on Minakami's Tone River. The full 12 kilometers of raftable river has sections to cater to all skill levels from the first timer to experienced rafters. The river is wildest from April to June when the snow melt is at its peak. Half day tours with English speaking guides are available.
* 

  Canyoning

  Season: April to November  
  Fee: Half day tours from 9,000 yen, full day tours from 15,000 yen

  Canyoning is an adventure sport that involves making your way down a river by a combination of hiking, swimming, sliding down chutes and jumping from waterfalls. Protected by wetsuits, helmets, and other safety gear, this thrilling sport is one of Minakami's most popular summer attractions. Guided half day and full day tours as well as English speaking guides are available.
* 

  Bungee Jumping

  Season: April to November  
  Fee: 12,000 yen

  Minakami hosts bungee jumping from the Suwakyo Bridge near the town's center. The 42 meter freefall over the Tone River is Japan's longest bridge bungee jump. English instruction is available.
* 

  Mountain Biking

  Season: April to November  
  Fee: Half day tours from 7,000 yen, full day tours from 12,000 yen

  A few companies operate guided mountain biking tours which run along the trails through the backcountry of Minakami. Both half day and full day courses are available, and some companies have English speaking guides.
* 

  Hiking

  Season: June to October (Mount Tanigawa)

  Various [hiking](e2427_where.html) trails can be found throughout the Minakami area. One popular destination is [Mount Tanigawa](e7462.html), which has a trail along the length of its ridge that crosses between [Gunma](/list/e1209.html) and [Niigata](/list/e1107.html) Prefectures. In the spring and summer the surrounding mountains are a lush green which turn brilliant shades of red, orange and yellow in autumn.
* 

  Snow Sports

  Season: December to April  
  Fee: Lift day passes typically around 5,000 yen

  There are about a half dozen [ski resorts](e2262.html) situated in Minakami. Some of them are a mere minutes away from the station, while others are found higher up in the mountains. They are open to both skiers and snowboarders, and English guided backcountry tours or skiing/snowboarding lessons are also available.

[How to get to and around Minakami](e7461.html)