---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7112.html
title: Nago Pineapple Park
description: Visitor guide for visiting the Nago Pineapple Park, a small theme park about pineapples.
keywords: nago, pineapple, park, okinawa
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 1988
char_count: 13419
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:33:26
---

Pineapples have been cultivated on [Okinawa](/list/e1247.html) as an agricultural product for around a century. However, due to the arrival of lower priced pineapples from overseas, the industry has suffered in recent decades. As a result, some farms are now promoting the fruit as a tourist attraction. The Nago Pineapple Park (ナゴパイナップルパーク), a small, enjoyable theme park about pineapples, is a result of such efforts.

The admission ticket to the park includes a ride on an automatic vehicle through pineapple fields and a tropical garden, and an adjacent souvenir shop that affords visitors the chance to sample pineapple products, including pineapple wines, juices, cakes, chocolates, as well as dried and fresh pineapple. During certain times of the year, it is also possible to observe how pineapples are peeled, cut and canned in a small factory on site.

Pineapples in the park's plantation

The Nago Pineapple Park is located just outside downtown Nago City on the Motobu Peninsula in northern [Okinawa Honto](e7101.html), about 75 kilometers from [Naha](e7102.html).

### By bus

Take [highway bus](e2366.html) number 111 or 117 or the Yanbaru Express from Naha to Nago Bus Terminal (90 minutes, 1550-2420 yen from Naha Bus Terminal; 105 minutes, 1650-2520 yen from Naha Airport; 1-2 buses/hour). Note that between Naha and Nago the Yanbaru Express is cheaper than the other buses and that it stops at the Kencho Kitaguchi bus stop instead of the Naha Bus Terminal. From there it is a ten minute [taxi](e2021.html) ride to the park (around 1200 yen one way).

### By car

By [car](e2024.html), take the [Okinawa Expressway](e2354.html) from Naha all the way to its northern end near Nago (1040 yen one way) and then follow regular roads to the Pineapple Park. In total, the journey takes about 90-120 minutes one way (more during rush hours).

[How to get to and around Okinawa Honto](e7116.html)