---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7403.html
title: Tokyo to Kusatsu Onsen\: How to get to and around Kusatsu Onsen
description: How to get to and around Kusatsu Onsen.
keywords: kusatsu, onsen, access, orientation, transportation, access, how, to, get, to, directions, train, bus, shinkansen
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 1672
char_count: 11100
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:15:43
---

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

[Trains](e2019.html) travel as far as Naganohara-Kusatsuguchi Station, from where there are JR [buses](e2015.html) to [Kusatsu Onsen](e7400.html) (30 minutes, 780 yen one way). The train journey is covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), [JR Tokyo Wide Pass](e2361_06.html), [JR East Nagano Niigata Area Pass](e2361_nagano_niigata.html), [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html) and [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html), but the bus ride is covered only by the Japan Rail Pass, JR East Nagano Niigata Area Pass and JR East Tohoku Area Pass.

There are various ways to get from [Tokyo](e2164.html) to Naganohara-Kusatsuguchi Station. The most convenient is by direct [limited express](e2016.html) train from [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s Ueno Station, requiring 2.5 hours and costing about 5000 yen one way. But there are only around three round trips per day.

Alternatively, you can do the whole trip by local trains, which takes about four hours, requires a transfer of trains at Takasaki and cost 3080 yen one way. Faster and more expensive is taking the [shinkansen](e2018.html) to Takasaki and transfer there to a local train to Naganohara-Kusatsuguchi.

Take the [Hokuriku Shinkansen](e2018_nagano.html) from Tokyo to [Karuizawa](e6030.html) (70 minutes, around 6000 yen one way) and then a Kusakaru Kotsu bus from Karuizawa to Kusatsu Onsen (80 minutes, 2240 yen one way). JR passes are not valid on the buses between Karuizawa and Kusatsu.

There are multiple JR [highway buses](e2366.html) from [Tokyo](e2164.html) (Busta [Shinjuku](e3011.html)) to [Kusatsu](e7400.html) per day. The one way trip costs around 3500-4000 yen depending on date of travel and takes about four hours. JR passes are not valid on these buses. In addition, a few other bus companies operate buses between Shibuya (Mark City) and Kusatsu (4.5 hours, 3600 yen one way), which can be reserved online via [Willer](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/gunma/kusatsu/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184).

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

[Kusatsu](e7400.html) is a compact, small town with the [Yubatake](e7401.html) (hot water field) in its center. Most attractions and [ryokan](e2029.html) in the town center are easily accessible on foot. [Mount Shirane](e7406.html) is located about a 30 minute [bus](e2015.html) or [car](e2024.html) ride outside the town center.

Map of central Kusatsu:

Map of the Mount Shirane area: