---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7684.html
title: Toki Forest Park
description: Visitor guide for the Sado Toki Forest Park on Sado Island, Niigata Prefecture.
keywords: toki, forest, park, mori, ibis, sado, sadogashima, park, conservation
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 431
char_count: 2915
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:29:35
---

The crested ibis (or toki in [Japanese](e621.html)) is a national icon that once became extinct in Japan but now once again inhabits [Sado Island](e7675.html). Toki Forest Park (トキの森公園, Toki no Mori Kōen) is a conservation park and museum where visitors can see the endangered crested ibis and learn more about the efforts to increase their population.

From the [Meiji Period](e2130.html), the bird suffered overhunting, habitat loss and a reduction of food sources caused by chemicals used in agriculture. In 1981, the last few toki that lived on [Sado Island](e7675.html) were captured for a breeding program that ultimately failed in 2003 when the last native bird died. A new breeding program with birds donated from China proved more successful.

Toki Fureai Plaza

The park houses an exhibition hall that focuses on the crested ibis and its history. It also contains various enclosures, mostly off-limits, where crested ibises are being bred and a few other ibis varieties are kept. A short walk away from the rest of the park (and included in the admission) is the Toki Fureai Plaza, a semi-natural enclosure with a toki family on display.

Since 2008, Toki Forest Park has been reintroducing crested ibises into the wild. Today, several hundred toki are living in the wild again, with more birds being released every year. So, with some luck it is now possible to spot crested ibises around the rice fields of [Sado Island](e7675.html) again.

Three wild crested ibises alongside three herons in the rice fields of Sado Island

The Toki Forest Park is located along the Minami [bus](e2015.html) line. From Ryotsu Port, the one way ride takes 20 minutes and costs 460 yen. Get off at the Toki no mori Koen (トキの森公園) bus stop. There is about one bus per hour.

[How to get to and around Sado Island](e7676.html)