---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7407.html
title: Kusatsu Onsen Ski Resort
description: Visitor guide for Kusatsu Onsen Ski Resort at Kusatsu Onsen.
keywords: kusatsu, mount, onsen, kokusai, ski, resort, snow, snowboard, board, reort, skiing
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 1591
char_count: 10526
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:04:38
---

Kusatsu Onsen Ski Resort (草津温泉スキー場, Kusatsu Onsen Skījō), formerly known as Kusatsu Kokusai Ski Resort, is located on the slopes of [Mount Shirane](e7406.html) above the town of [Kusatsu Onsen](e7400.html). The resort is not far from Kusatsu's famous [hot spring baths](e7402.html), where it is popular to take a long hot soak after a day of hitting the slopes.

Following an unexpected [volcanic eruption](e2327.html) in January 2018, the upper part of the [ski resort](e2262.html), including its main gondola lift, had to be closed, but the resort continues to offer multiple lifts and runs on its lower section. In the summer, the resort offers various outdoor activities, such as ziplining, mini golf, grass cart and mountain boarding.

Kusatsu Onsen Ski Resort

Kusatsu Onsen Ski Resort is a small resort, located just minutes from the famous baths of Kusatsu Onsen. Lift ticket prices are lowered during the shoulder seasons.

Season\*

**Mid December to Early April**  
(December 18, 2025 to April 5, 2026)

Lifts

9 lifts

Tickets

Full day
6000 yen

Half day
5300 yen

Nighter
2000 yen

Access

Bus/Train
Five minutes by free shuttle bus from the Kusatsu Onsen Bus Terminal. Alternatively, the resort is a 30 minute walk from central Kusatsu.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

A free shuttle bus runs every 30 minutes between the Kusatsu Onsen Bus Terminal and the ski resort (5 minutes). Alternatively, the resort is a 20-30 minute walk from central Kusatsu.

[How to get to and around Kusatsu Onsen](e7403.html)