---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7418.html
title: Takayama-sha Sericulture School
description: Visitor guide for the World Heritage-designated Takayama-sha Sericulture School in Fujioka City.
keywords: takayamasha, sericulture, school, tomioka, gunma, fujioka, unesco, world, heritage, industry, silk
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 579
char_count: 3982
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:11:18
---

Construction Notice:

In a 7-year renovation project, the main building is currently being disassembled and reconstructed. Work started in 2021 and is scheduled to be completed by 2028.

Takayama-sha Sericulture School (高山社跡, Takayama-sha Ato) in Fujioka City near [Tomioka](e7415.html), was a place where people from all across Japan and neighboring countries could go to study more about sericulture, the techniques of raising silkworms to obtain raw silk. In recognition of its contribution towards the advancement of the silk industry, the former school is one of three sites alongside the [Tomioka Silk Mill](e7417.html) that attained [World Heritage](e2251.html) status in 2014.

Takayama Chogoro, a former [samurai](e2127.html) who entered the silk business after the [end of the feudal age](e2130.html), established the Takayama-sha Sericulture School in 1884 after perfecting the sericulture technique seion-iku. In seion-iku, temperature and humidity are controlled to produce ideal conditions for the raising of silkworm cocoons by using a two storied building with lots of windows and a raised roof for good ventilation as well as fireplaces. The technique taught at the school set the standard for modern sericulture technology in Japan.

Trays for raising silkworm cocoons on the second floor of the main building

Visitors enter the school grounds through an impressive entrance gate from where guides lead tours through the property, providing explanations in [Japanese](e621.html). The former school's two-story main building was built in 1891 and modeled after [Tajima Yahei Sericulture Farm](e7419.html) in Isesaki. Open to the public for viewing, it features windows and ceilings that can be opened for good ventilation. On the first floor there are fireplaces and a tastefully designed [tatami](e2007.html) room, while the second floor served the raising of the silkworm cocoons.

Several more buildings once stood on the grounds of the former school; however, many of them are either in bad shape or no longer standing. There are plans to renovate some of the structures over the coming years and generally revert the property as close to how it looked during the early [Meiji Period](e2130.html).

View of the entrance gate before renovations began

### By train

The closest train station to Takayama-sha Sericulture School is Gunma-Fujioka Station on the JR Hachiko Line (15 minutes, 240 yen one way from Takasaki, one train/hour). From the station, take a highly infrequent local community bus bound for Takayama and get off at Takayama-sha Ato (高山社跡, 35 minutes, 370 yen one way). The bus stops directly in front of the former school. Alternatively, a [taxi](e2021.html) ride takes about 20 minutes and costs around 3500 yen one way.

### By car

The Takayama-sha Sericulture School is about a 20 minute drive from Fujioka IC on the Joshinetsu Expressway. From the [Tomioka Silk Mill](e7417.html), the former school can be reached in about 45 minutes via toll-free roads. There is limited parking in front of the school's main entrance. A larger parking lot is located about 300 meters away and connected to the school by a walking path through a bamboo grove.

[How to get to and around Tomioka](e7416.html)