---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7780.html
title: Shiramizu Amidado Temple
description: Visitor guide for Shiramizu Amidado, a celebrated temple in the city of Iwaki, Fukushima Prefecture.
keywords: shiramizu, amidado, temple, iwaki, fukushima
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 351
char_count: 2528
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:39:45
---

Shiramizu Amidado (白水阿弥陀堂, Shiramizu Amidadō) is a celebrated [temple](e2058.html) in [Iwaki City](e7775.html). It was constructed in 1160 by a member of the Fujiwara clan and was designated a national treasure in 1952, [Fukushima Prefecture](/list/e1208.html)'s only national treasure. The temple suffered some damage in the [2011 earthquake](/news/0018.html), but was repaired and reopened in the following year.

Shiramizu Amidado is famous as a rare, partially surviving example of a [Pure Land garden](e2099_types.html), a garden style that was popular during the [Heian Period](e2132.html) (794-1185) and features a pond, islands and pavilions in an attempt to recreate the Buddhist idea of the Pure Land paradise. No complete example of a Pure Land garden survives today. Other partially surviving examples can be seen at [Byodoin Temple](e3923.html) in [Uji](e3975.html) and [Motsuji Temple](e5002.html) in [Hiraizumi](e5000.html).

The area around the pond is free for visitors to walk around and enjoy, but an admission fee is required to view the Amidado Hall from up-close. Entry into the hall is not possible. Enshrined are five wooden statues, including the principle object of worship, a wood and lacquer statue of the Amida Buddha.

Rare, partially surviving Pure Land garden

From Iwaki Station, take a [bus](e2015.html) bound for Kawadaira (川平) and get off at the Amidado bus stop (あみだ堂, 20 minutes, 420 yen one way, one bus every 1-2 hours). The temple is a 5-10 minute walk from the bus stop. Alternatively, the temple can be reached in a 30 minute walk from Uchigo Station. Free parking is available at the Shiramizu Amidado.

[How to get to and around Iwaki](e7776.html)