---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7854.html
title: Ryozenji Temple
description: Visitor guide for Ryozenji Temple, the first temple of the Shikoku 88 Temple Pilgrimage.
keywords: ryozenji, temple, ryozen, shikoku, 88, eighty-eight, pilgrim, pilgrims, pilgrimage, buddhist, buddhism, ryouzenji
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 443
char_count: 3217
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:21:50
---

Ryozenji Temple (霊山寺, Ryōzenji) is the first [temple](e2058.html) along the Shikoku Pilgrimage, a journey to 88 temples on [Shikoku](/list/e1107.html) that are associated with Kobo Daishi, the founder of [Shingon Buddhism](e2055.html). The pilgrimage, which takes about two months on foot, completely circumnavigates Shikoku, traversing all four prefectures on the island.

Many pilgrims begin and end their journey outside of [Shikoku](/list/e1107.html) with a visit to [Koyasan](e4900.html), the headquarters of Shingon Buddhism and site of Kobo Daishi's "eternal meditation". Among the pilgrimage's 88 temples, Ryozenji lies closest to Koyasan, and therefore serves as the start and end point on Shikoku. As such it sells white robes, woven hats, walking sticks and other supplies that pilgrims may require.

### By train

Take a [train](e2019.html) from Naruto Station to Ikenotani Station and transfer to another train to Bando Station. The entire one way trip takes between 30-45 minutes, costs 330 yen and is covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html). There is about one connection per hour. From Bando Station, the temple can be reached in a ten minute walk.

### By local bus

[Buses](e2015.html) between Naruto Station and Itano Station (Oasa Line) stop at Ryozenji along the way. Get off at Ryozenji-mae bus stop. The one way trip from Naruto Station takes about 30 minutes and costs 410 yen. Buses operate only once every two hours.

[How to get to and around Naruto](e7851.html)