---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7995.html
title: Kamo Aquarium
description: Visitor guide for the Kamo Aquarium in Tsuruoka, Yamagata Prefecture, not far from the Dewa Sanzan.
keywords: kamo, aquarium, aquariums, tsuruoka, jellyfish, fish, seal, seals, tourism
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 393
char_count: 2796
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:19:16
---

Kamo Aquarium (加茂水族館, Kamo Suizokukan) is an [aquarium](e2425.html) famous for its impressive collection of jellyfish. The aquarium is located along the coast of the Sea of Japan in Tsuruoka City, south of [Sakata](e7990.html) and to the west of the [Dewa Sanzan](e7900.html).

The aquarium's "Jellyfish Park" exhibits dozens of different species of jellyfish in different circular windows which are back-lit and provide for an atmospheric visual effect against the exhibition space's low lighting. There are descriptions of the species next to the windows, but these are mostly in [Japanese](e621.html). A jellyfish farm is contained within the aquarium where thousands of tiny, unborn jellyfish are being incubated.

In addition to boasting a collection of fresh and saltwater fish from local waters, the aquarium also has a small outdoor arena in which seal shows are held a few times daily. On the roof of the aquarium is a pleasant green area with a deck and views over the sea. The aquarium also contains a cafe and souvenir shop.

Jellyfish Park

### By bus

Kamo Aquarium is a stop along the [bus](e2015.html) line that connects Tsuruoka Station with Yunohama Onsen (湯野浜温泉). The one way ride from Tsuruoka Station to the aquarium takes about 40 minutes and costs 760 yen (not covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html)). There is one bus about every two hours. Tsuruoka Station is a 20-30 minute train ride south of [Sakata](e7990.html) (510 yen by [local](e2016.html) train or around 1000-1500 yen by [limited express](e2016.html), covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html)).

### By taxi

The aquarium can be reached by [taxi](e2021.html) from central Tsuruoka (25 minutes, around 6,000 yen) or Sakata (35 minutes, around 10,000 yen).

[How to get to and around Sakata](e7991.html)