---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7928.html
title: Zao Onsen Hot Spring Baths
description: Visitor guide to the hot springs and baths of Zao Onsen.
keywords: zao, onsen, hot, spring, bath, baths, spa, pool, pools
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 531
char_count: 3804
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:48:25
---

Zao Dai-Rotemburo

The [hot spring](e2292.html) town of Zao Onsen (蔵王温泉, Zaō Onsen) lies attractively at an altitude of 880 meters above sea level on the slopes of the volcanic Mount Zao. In winter, it also serves as one of Japan's leading [ski resorts](e7927.html), enabling [skiers](e2262.html) to enjoy the Japanese way of relaxing in a hot spring bath after a day on the slopes.

Zao Onsen's sulfuric waters are among the most acidic in the entire country with a PH value of close to 1. They can be enjoyed at multiple [public bath houses](e2074.html) across the town, which range from small, old-fashioned community baths to a modern facility with various pools. The highlight is the Zao Dai-Rotemburo outdoor bath, which is unfortunately closed in winter.

Inside one of the town's traditional bath houses

Most [ryokan](e2029.html) and many hotels and [pensions](e2025_pension.html) in Zao Onsen offer their staying guests hot spring baths. A few of them also open their baths to non-staying guests during daytime for a small admission fee.

Below are some of the public baths found in Zao Onsen:

* 

  Zao Dai-Rotemburo (Zao Large Outdoor Baths)•••

  Hours: 9:30 to 17:00 (until 18:00 on weekends and [national holidays](e2062.html))  
  Closed: late November to mid April  
  Admission: 800 yen

  Attractively situated in a forested valley right alongside a mountain river, these large, gender-separated outdoor baths are among Japan's most attractive. Unfortunately, they are closed in winter.
* 

  Shinzaemon no Yu•

  Hours: 10:00 to 18:00 (entry until 17:30)  
  Closed: Wednesdays   
  Admission: 1000 yen

  Shinzaemon no Yu is an attractive public bath house with multiple, gender-separated indoor and outdoor pools. The modern facility also includes a restaurant.
* 

  Kawarayu Public Bath•

  Hours: 6:00 to 22:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 200 yen (deposit into box)

  The Kawarayu is the most unique of Zao's three traditional public bath houses. The unmanned building stands right on top of a hot spring source with water gushing up directly into the pools. A wall separates the men's from the women's bath rooms, but the two pools are connected with each other under the water surface.
* 

  Shimoyu Public Bath

  Hours: 6:00 to 22:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 200 yen (deposit into box)

  The Shimoyu ("lower bath house") is one of three traditional, small public bath houses in the old town center. The unmanned facility offers two simple, gender-separated pools.
* 

  Kamiyu Public Bath

  Hours: 6:00 to 22:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 200 yen (deposit into box)

  The Kamiyu ("upper bath house") is another of Zao's traditional bath houses. Like Shimoyu the facility is small and simple and has gender-separated pools.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

[How to get to and around Zao](e7926.html)