---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7853.html
title: Otsuka Museum of Art
description: Visitor guide for the Otsuka Museum of Art in Naruto.
keywords: otsuka, art, museum, kokusai, bijutsukan, naruto
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 460
char_count: 3332
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:21:43
---

The Otsuka Museum of Art (大塚国際美術館, Ōtsuka Kokusai Bijutsukan) was built in [Naruto Park](e7852.html) on the occasion of the Otsuka Pharmaceutical Group's 75th anniversary. It is the largest [museum](e2428.html) in Japan, featuring life-size reproductions of virtually every representative masterpiece of Western art from antiquity to the 20th century including works by Michelangelo, El Greco, Goya, Monet and Picasso.

The museum is well presented and enables visitors to appreciate so many master artists all in one place. Besides over a thousand paintings, the museum displays reproductions of altars, tombs and entire halls, such as the interior of the Sistine Chapel.

Paintings were reproduced by copying them onto ceramic plates, a technique which is claimed to preserve their colors and shapes for as long as 2000 years. In addition to the art, the museum also has a number of outdoor spaces with expansive terraces and beautiful gardens. Overlooking these areas are a restaurant and a cafe.

Sistine Chapel

The Otsuka Museum of Art stands in [Naruto Park](e7852.html), several kilometers outside central [Naruto](e7850.html). Hourly [city buses](e2015.html) between Naruto Station and Naruto Park make a stop in front of the museum along the way (20 minutes, 350 yen one way). The museum is also about a ten minute walk from the Naruto Koen bus stop, and a small number of highway buses between Osaka and Tokushima even stop at the museum.

[How to get to and around Naruto](e7851.html)