---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7300.html
title: Miyako Island Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Miyako Island (Miyakojima) in Okinawa Prefecture.
keywords: miyako, miyakojima, island, okinawa, travel, sightseeing, guide, tourist, tourism, visitor, information
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 1024
char_count: 7337
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 22:44:23
---

Miyako Island (宮古島, Miyakojima), located 300 kilometers south of [Okinawa Main Island](e7101.html) and 100 kilometers north of the [Yaeyama Islands](e7200.html), is known for some of Japan's best [beaches](e2461.html) and as a great destination for [snorkeling](e2424_snorkeling.html) and [diving](e2424_diving.html) in the coral reefs. The sub tropical climate provides mild weather year around.

Miyako is the fourth largest island in [Okinawa Prefecture](/list/e1247.html). It lacks any major hills or mountains and is mostly covered by sugar cane fields and a few towns, among which Hirara is the largest with a moderate range of restaurants and bars. Resort hotels and pensions are found across the island. Unlike other parts of Okinawa, Miyako is free of habu snakes.

Goya chanpuru and soba noodles, two famous Okinawa dishes, are also popular on Miyako

### Beaches

[Beaches](e2461.html) are Miyako's most famous attraction. There are picturesque sand beaches for swimming and relaxing and coral reefs that provide excellent [snorkeling](e2424_snorkeling.html). While the beaches are open year round, they are best enjoyed from April to November when the air temperature consistently tops 25 degrees and the water is very warm.

In the water, beware of strong currents that can pull you out to sea and poisonous creatures such as Habu Jellyfish, a type of box jellyfish, that is most prevalent from June to October. Although jellyfish stings are rare, if stung you should pour vinegar over the sting, remove any tentacles, and seek medical help as it may become life threatening if left untreated.

* 

  Maehama Beach•••

  Also known as Yonaha-Maehama Beach, this white sand [beach](e2461.html) in the southwestern corner of Miyako usually leads rankings of Japan's best beaches. It stretches seven kilometers and is suited for swimming and various other water sports. The beach is also known for beautiful sunsets. Its facilities include showers, toilets and a rental shop.
* 

  Yoshino Beach•••

  Also referred to as Yoshino Kaigan, this is the best [beach](e2461.html) on Miyako for [snorkeling](e2424_snorkeling.html). Swarms of colorful fish surround you as soon as you enter the water. And a few steps further starts the maze of a spectacular coral reef with an abundance of marine life. Beach facilities include showers, toilets and a rental shop.
* 

  Sunayama Beach••

  With its white sand, clear blue waters and rock formations, Sunayama Beach is another of Miyako's most beautiful [beaches](e2461.html). It is reached in a short walk over a sand dune from the parking lot. Its facilities include showers and toilets.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

### Other Attractions

Besides its beaches, [snorkeling](e2424_snorkeling.html) and [diving](e2424_diving.html), Miyako offers a small range of other attractions, including places of natural beauty and cultural interest, and a couple of elegant bridges to neighboring islands.

* 

  Cape Higashi-Hennazaki

  Lighthouse: 9:30 to 16:30 (until 17:00 on weekends from Mar to Sep), 300 yen

  Higashi-Hennazaki is the southeastern cape of triangle shaped Miyako. At the tip of the two kilometer long, narrow peninsula stands a handsome lighthouse.
* 

  Tuyumya Grave

  Freely accessible

  Located in central Hirara near the port, the Tuyumya Grave enshrines Nakasone Tuyumya (Toyomiya in standard Japanese), a leader of Miyako in the 16th century, and his descendants. The grave is built in a unique style and designated a national cultural asset.
* 

  Tropical Botanical Garden

  Freely accessible

  Miyakojima City Botanical Garden is a spacious park for recreation and the study of tropical plants in inland Miyako. Several walking trails pass by the over 1600 types of plants that include trees, bushes and flowers from Miyako and from Hawaii, Taiwan and Southeast Asia.
* 

  Irabu, Ikema and Kurima bridges

  Freely traversable by car, motorcycle, bicycle or on foot

  Miyako is connected to three of its smaller, neighboring islands by gracefully shaped bridges. Irabu Bridge is Japan's longest toll-free bridge, spanning 3.5 kilometers to Irabu Island. At the northern tip of Miyako, the 1.4 kilometer long Ikema Ohashi leads to Ikema Island, while the 1.7 kilometer long Kurima Ohashi connects Kurima Island with Miyako in the southwest.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

JAL and ANA connect **Miyako Airport** on Miyako Island with [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s [Haneda Airport](e2430.html) (2.5 to 3 hours), [Osaka](e2157.html)'s [Kansai Airport](e2033.html) (2 hours), [Nagoya](e2155.html)'s [Central Japan Airport](e2431.html), Naha Airport on [Okinawa Main Island](e7101.html) (45 minutes), [Ishigaki](e7201.html) (30 minutes) and Tarama (20 minutes), a small island between Miyako and Ishigaki.

Furthermore, Skymark is serving Miyako's **Shimojishima Airport** with fares that are often considerably lower than the ones by JAL and ANA. Skymark connects the airport to Tokyo's [Haneda Airport](e2430.html), [Kobe Airport](e2432.html) and [Naha Airport](e7102.html). Shimojishima Airport is located on a small island that is connected with Miyako Island via bridges.

Airfares from Tokyo to Miyako over the next 30 days

December 22, 2025 - January 20, 2026

| Airline | Lowest fare | Average lowest fare |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Skymark](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=MMY&outboundDate=2026-01-08&airlines=BC) | [12,086 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=MMY&outboundDate=2026-01-08&airlines=BC) | [23,726 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=MMY&outboundDate=2026-01-08&airlines=BC) |
| [ANA](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=MMY&outboundDate=2026-01-18&airlines=NH) | [15,520 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=MMY&outboundDate=2026-01-18&airlines=NH) | [33,273 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=MMY&outboundDate=2026-01-18&airlines=NH) |
| [JTA (JAL)](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=MMY&outboundDate=2026-01-18&airlines=NU) | [15,520 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=MMY&outboundDate=2026-01-18&airlines=NU) | [26,196 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=MMY&outboundDate=2026-01-18&airlines=NU) |
| [JAL](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=MMY&outboundDate=2026-01-01&airlines=JL) | [30,150 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=MMY&outboundDate=2026-01-01&airlines=JL) | [47,367 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=MMY&outboundDate=2026-01-01&airlines=JL) |

Airfares from Tokyo to Shimojishima over the next 30 days

December 22, 2025 - January 20, 2026

| Airline | Lowest fare | Average lowest fare |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Skymark](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=SHI&outboundDate=2026-01-08&airlines=BC) | [11,900 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=SHI&outboundDate=2026-01-08&airlines=BC) | [22,511 yen](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&origin=TYO&destination=SHI&outboundDate=2026-01-08&airlines=BC) |

[Book Now](https://skyscanner.net/g/referrals/v1/flights/day-view?mediaPartnerId=278510&locale=en-GB&origin=TYO&destination=MMY&outboundDate=2026-01-12)

[Ferry](e2355.html) service between [Ishigaki](e7201.html), Miyako and the [Okinawa Main Island](e7101.html) was discontinued in 2008.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

Miyako is a relatively small island, measuring about 25 kilometers from south to north and about 15 kilometers from east to west.

A [rental car](e2024.html) is the most convenient means of getting around Miyako. Most rental car companies have an outlet at Miyako Airport. Driving on Miyako is easy and enjoyable. There are also rental shops for bicycles and scooters.

Many hotels offer their guests free shuttle bus rides from/to the airport. Likewise, many leisure and water sport companies will pick up their customers from hotels free of charge. A [bus](e2015.html) network on the island is existent, but service is highly infrequent, even to Miyako Airport. [Taxis](e2021.html) are another option.