---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7775.html
title: Iwaki Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Iwaki City in Fukushima, which used to be a coal mining town.
keywords: iwaki, fukushima, travel, guide, sightseeing, tourist, tourism, information
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 300
char_count: 2420
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 16:45:03
---

Iwaki (いわき) is a city in southeastern [Fukushima Prefecture](/list/e1208.html) along the Pacific coast, about 50 kilometers south of the stricken [nuclear plant](/news/0018.html). The city suffered damage from both the earthquake and tsunami, but most tourist spots reopened within a year afterwards.

Coal mining was Iwaki's main industry from the 1870s to the 1960s, as commemorated by the [Iwaki Coal and Fossil Museum](e7779.html). When oil took over as the predominant energy source in Japan, coal mines started closing, and the city turned towards tourism for new sources of income. In 1966, a new water park resort with a Hawaiian theme was built in the hot spring resort of Yumoto Onsen. Now known as the [Spa Resort Hawaiians](e7777.html), it remains Iwaki's most famous tourist attraction today.

* [](/e/e7778.html)

  1

  Zoo/Wildlife

  [Aquamarine•](/e/e7778.html)

  Outstanding aquarium with local and exotic fish.

  3.8

  

  47
* [](/e/e7777.html)

  2

  Amusement Park

  [Spa Resort Hawaiians•](/e/e7777.html)

  Large water park resort with Hula Girl dancers.

  3.7

  

  50
* [](/e/e7793.html)

  3

  Nature

  [Abukumado•](/e/e7793.html)

  Impressive limestone cave open to the public.

  15
* [](/e/e7779.html)

  4

  Museum

  [Coal Museum](/e/e7779.html)

  Commemorating Iwaki's coal mining history.

  3.0

  

  23
* [](/e/e7780.html)

  5

  Temple

  [Shiramizu Amidado](/e/e7780.html)

  Beautiful temple hall standing in the remains of a paradise garden.

  7
* [](/e/e7782.html)

  6

  Historic Site

  [Rokkakudo Hall](/e/e7782.html)

  Hexagonal hall standing right at the coast of the Pacific Ocean.

  7
* [](/e/e7781.html)

  7

  Viewpoint/Tower

  [Shioyasaki Lighthouse](/e/e7781.html)

  Pretty lighthouse on top of a steep hill overlooking the ocean.

  3

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Iwaki](/e/e7775.html)

[Getting to and around Iwaki](/e/e7776.html)
[See access info](/e/e7776.html)