---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7130.html
title: Okinawa Karate Kaikan
description: Visitor guide for the Okinawa Karate Kaikan near Naha, Okinawa Island.
keywords: okinawa, karate, kaikan, museum, museums, dojo, history
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 2015
char_count: 13698
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:33:22
---

Okinawa Karate Kaikan (沖縄空手会館) is a complex south of [Naha](e7102.html) on [Okinawa Island](e7101.html). Opened in 2017, the complex is dedicated to karate and contains various facilities, including multiple dojos and a museum, where visitors can learn more about the Okinawan martial art.

Karate has a long history in [Okinawa](/list/e1247.html), dating back to the times of the [Ryukyu Kingdom](e7125.html) when the martial art was practiced in order to defend the king. Like today, the martial art was practiced in promotion of peace and taught discipline and mental as well as physical strength. Karate became popular throughout Japan in the early 20th century before spreading around the world and becoming the most practiced martial art in the world. The Karate Kaikan was established to promote and preserve the essence of one of Okinawa's biggest exports.

The Karate Kaikan's main dojo includes four courts for competitions

The Karate Kaikan's **museum** recounts the history of karate through various documents in addition to artifacts like uniforms and weapons. There is also an area with interactive exhibits, in which visitors can experience karate training techniques such as fast punching and lifting weights to strengthen the wrists and legs. Availability of English explanations is very good. Outside the museum there is a small shop and cafe.

The main **dojo** and training room are open for the public to use (advance reservations and usage fees required). Standing apart from the main building, a special dojo with a red tiled roof is a beautiful example of a traditional dojo and is reserved for special events.

The special dojo next to the main building

Take [bus](e2015.html) number 446 from the Naha Bus Terminal to Tomigusukukōen-mae (豊見城公園前, around 10 minutes, 300 yen, 1-2 buses/hour), from where the Okinawa Karate Kaikan is a 5-10 minute walk. Alternatively, the Karate Kaikan is a ten minute [drive](e2024.html) from downtown [Naha](e7102.html).

Note that the [Former Navy Underground Headquarters](e7105.html) are located only about a ten minute walk away from the Karate Kaikan.

[How to get to and around Naha](e7118.html)