---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7402.html
title: Kusatsu Hot Spring Baths
description: Visitor guide for the hot spring baths of Kusatsu Onsen.
keywords: kusatsu, onsen, hot, spring, springs, bath, baths, bathing, spa
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 2027
char_count: 13555
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:49:28
---

Sainokawara Rotenburo

[Kusatsu](e7400.html) has the largest natural flow of [hot spring](e2292.html) water in all of Japan, including the waters that surfaces at the [Yubatake](e7401.html) in the town center. The sulfurous, highly acidic [waters](e2292_water.html) have been considered among Japan's best for centuries, and Kusatsu has constantly occupied a top spot in onsen rankings. It is difficult to beat Kusatsu in terms of quality and quantity of its waters.

Kusatsu's waters can be enjoyed at the town's [public baths](e2074.html) and [ryokan](e2029.html). The most prominent public baths are the **Sainokawara Rotemburo** (large outdoor pools in [Sainokawara Park](e7404.html)), the **Otakinoyu** with its unique Awaseyu baths that features multiple wooden pools with different water temperatures, and the **Gozanoyu**, a beautiful wooden building next to the Yubatake with two simple, traditional baths.

The Awaseyu indoor bath at the Otakinoyu bath house

Besides these three large public baths, there are more than a dozen **small community bath houses** scattered around town. Most of them are for exclusive use by local residents, but three of them, the Shirohatanoyu, Jizonoyu and Chiyonoyu, are also open to tourists. These community bath houses are free to use and have small, gender-separated pools that typically sit only 2-4 persons and are filled with very hot water.

Of course, Kusatsu's waters can also be enjoyed at [ryokan](e2029.html) baths across the town. While staying guests can use the baths for free during their entire stay, some ryokan also open their baths to non-staying visitors during daytime for a fee of typically 500 to 1500 yen.

Shirohatanoyu, one of Kusatsu's many small community bath houses

Lastly, there are a few **foot baths** (ashiyu) found in town that can be used freely by tourists. One of them stands next to the Yubatake and another one just outside the bus terminal building, while a large one is located in [Sainokawara Park](e7404.html).

Other bath-related attractions in Kusatsu include [Yumomi](e7405.html), a traditional method of cooling down the [hot spring water](e2292_water.html) to bathing temperature that includes dancing and singing. Performances are held daily and can be viewed at [Netsunoyu](e7405.html).

* 

  Sainokawara Rotenburo••

  15 minute walk from the Yubatake  
  Hours: 7:00 to 20:00 (from 9:00 from Dec to Mar), entry until 19:30  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 800 yen

  This large public open air bath (rotenburo) in [Sainokawara Park](e7404.html) is one of Japan's largest and wide enough to accommodate more than 100 bathers. It offers nice seasonal views, especially of [autumn colors](e2014.html) in fall and snowy forests in winter.
* 

  Otakinoyu••

  5 minute walk from the Yubatake  
  Hours: 9:00 to 21:00 (entry until 20:00)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 1100 yen

  This public bath house offers a variety of gender separated indoor and outdoor baths. The main attraction is Awaseyu, traditional wooden indoor baths with multiple tubs with water differing in temperature (from 38 to 46 degrees).
* 

  Gozanoyu•

  Next to the Yubatake  
  Hours: 7:00 to 21:00 (from 8:00 from Dec to Mar), entry until 20:30  
  Admission: 800 yen (bath only), 2000 yen/hour for private tatami room

  Opened in 2013 next to the [Yubatake](e7401.html), this wooden bath house offers one stone bath and one wooden bath that are switched between the genders on a daily basis. Each bath consists of two pools that are fed by different types of thermal waters. There is a large [tatami room](e2007.html) for relaxation on the second floor, as well as a smaller tatami room that can be rented for private use.
* 

  Shirohatanoyu•

  Next to the Yubatake  
  Hours: 8:00 to 23:00 (closed for cleaning around 8:00)  
  Admission: Free

  One of the community bath houses open to tourists, the Shirohatanoyu is located right next to the [Yubatake](e7401.html) and the Gozanoyu bath house. It has two small baths that fit 2-4 people each. The water is very hot as it comes directly from the spring.
* 

  Jizonoyu•

  5 minute walk from the Yubatake  
  Hours: 8:00 to 22:00  
  Admission: Free

  Jizonoyu is another of Kusatsu's community bath houses open to tourists. It lies just a five minute walk along a few side streets from the bottom of the [Yubatake](e7401.html). Frequented by locals, the facility's small, gender-segregated baths are filled with very hot water from the spring in front of the building and fit about 4-6 people each. Jizonoyu is one of the local baths that offer Jikanyu timed bathing therapy sessions.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

The [ryokan](e2029.html) and [public baths](e2074.html) are spread across the town of Kusatsu.

[How to get to and around Kusatsu Onsen](e7403.html)