---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7701.html
title: How to get to and around Aizu-Wakamatsu\: Access, Orientation and Transportation
description: Access, orientation and transportation in Aizu-Wakamatsu.
keywords: aizu, wakamatsu, access, orientation, how, to, get, around, directions, train, loop bus
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 1781
char_count: 11895
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:24:34
---

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

Take a Yamabiko train along the [JR Tohoku Shinkansen](e2018_tohoku.html) from [Tokyo](e2164.html) to Koriyama Station and transfer to a regular train on the JR Banetsu-sai Line. Get off at Aizu-Wakamatsu Station. The entire trip takes approximately three hours, costs about 9500 yen and is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html).

Multiple daytime and overnight [buses](e2366.html) are operated between [Tokyo](e2164.html) (Busta Shinjuku bus terminal) and Aizu-Wakamatsu Station. The one way trip takes 4.5 hours (7 hours by overnight bus) and costs 5000 yen one way. A limited number of discounted one way tickets are available if purchased at least one day in advance.

[Nikko](e3800.html) and [Aizu-Wakamatsu](e7700.html) are connected with each other by a rural train line that is operated by Tobu Railway, Yagan Railway and Aizu Railway. With good connections, the one way ride takes about three hours, costs around 5000 yen and requires 2-3 transfers of trains along the way, typically at Shimo-Imaichi, Kinugawa Onsen and/or Aizu-Tajima. It is not covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html).

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

[Aizu](e7700.html)'s main railway station is Aizu-Wakamatsu Station, served by [JR](e2019.html) and the Aizu Railway. The city's attractions are not located within walking distance of the station and are distributed across the city center, with many concentrated in and around [Tsuruga Castle Park](e7703.html).

The easiest way for tourists to get around are the **Aizu Loop Buses** which connect Aizu-Wakamatsu Station with all of the city's sites of interest. Buses running in the counter-clockwise direction are called Haikarasan and depart every 30 minutes, while buses running in the opposite direction are called Akabe and operate once per hour. The fare is 210 yen per ride or 600 yen for a day pass for unlimited rides on one calendar day.

Aizu has also a network of regular [city buses](e2015.html), although most tourists will not need to use them, as the loop buses are easier to use. Fares for regular buses are dependent on distance traveled.

An Aizu Loop Bus