---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7754.html
title: Azuma Mountains (Mount Azuma)
description: Visitor guide for the Azuma Mountains in Fukushima Prefecture, a mountain range suitable for hiking and famous for Azuma Kofuji
keywords: azuma, mount, mountain, mountains, fukushima, kofuji, bandai, skyline, hiking
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 570
char_count: 4088
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:36:23
---

Azuma Kofuji's beautiful crater

The **Azuma Mountains** (吾妻山, Azumayama or Azumasan) are a roughly 2000 meter tall, [volcanic](e2327.html) mountain range northeast of [Mount Bandai](e7755.html) along the border of [Fukushima](/list/e1208.html) and [Yamagata](/list/e1205.html) prefectures. Attractive [hiking](e2427.html) trails lead up to the various peaks and across the breathtaking volcanic landscape that offers craters, marshlands and ponds.

The most popular hiking trails in the Azuma Mountains are located in the east of the mountain range. In particular, the **Azuma-Kofuji peak** (1707 meters), a perfectly shaped miniature version of [Mount Fuji](e2172.html), is the star attraction and draws many climbers from spring to autumn each year. Its crater can be climbed in ten minutes from the parking lot and circled in a panoramic 45 minute walk.

The scenic Bandai Azuma Skyline

Getting to the base of Azuma-Kofuji involves traveling via the **Bandai Azuma Skyline**, one of Japan's most spectacular mountain roads. The former toll road starts in [Fukushima City](e7725.html) and winds into the high elevations of the eastern Azuma Mountains before descending towards the [Urabandai](e7752.html) region. It provides outstanding views of beautiful landscapes and is especially popular when the [autumn colors](e2014.html) are at their best, usually from early to mid October. The road is closed from mid November to mid April.

The trailhead of Azuma-Kofuji is just next to the **Jododaira Marshlands**, where the parking lot is located and various other hiking trails start. Northwest across the marshlands is the **Issaikyo** peak (1949 meters), which can be reached in an 80 minute hike from the trailhead. The ascent rewards climbers with nice aerial views of Azuma-Kofuji and the Goshikinuma, a large pond with a brilliant turquoise color (not to be confused with the one at [Urabandai](e7752.html)).

Trail around Kamanuma Pond

The picturesque **Kamanuma Pond** is another attractive hiking destination in the area which can be done on its own or combined with a climb to Issaikyo. The trail to the pond passes through grasslands and marshlands and circles around the west bank of Kamanuma before descending back to the parking lot via an alternate route. The entire circular trip takes about 90 minutes without climbing Issaikyo.

From Kamanuma Pond, hikers also have the choice of climbing the 1975 meter tall **Higashi Azuma** peak. The ascent from the pond up Higashi Azuma takes about 45 minutes, and the trail is notably more challenging and uncomfortable especially in wet weather. Hikers who make it to the top will be rewarded with good views of [Mount Bandai](e7755.html) and the [Urabandai](e7752.html) area.

From May to early November, there are some bus round trips operated between Fukushima Station and Jododaira, stopping at [Takayu Onsen](e7729.html) along the way. The round trips cost 6000-8000 yen and have to be reserved by 5pm of the previous day through an [online reservation form](https://widgets.bokun.io/online-sales/648811d0-d45f-4cf7-ad41-4ff83f34e07a/experience/1015904). Alternatively, [rental cars](e2024.html) are available around [Fukushima](e7725.html) and Koriyama stations.

[How to get to and around Fukushima](e7726.html)