---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7526.html
title: How to get to and around Takaoka\: Access, Orientation and Transportation
description: Access, Orientation and transportation in Takaoka\: how to get to and around Takaoka.
keywords: takaoka, orientation, directions, transportation, access, how, to, get, to, directions, shinkansen
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 599
char_count: 4337
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:28:53
---

### How to get to Takaoka

#### From Tokyo

[Tokyo Station](e3037.html) and Shin-Takaoka Station are connected by hourly trains along the [JR Hokuriku Shinkansen](e2018_nagano.html). The one way journey takes approximately two hours, costs around 13,500 yen and is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and the [Hokuriku Arch Pass](e2361_arch.html).

#### From Kanazawa

[Kanazawa](e2167.html) and Shin-Takaoka Station are connected by twice-hourly trains along the [JR Hokuriku Shinkansen](e2018_nagano.html). The one way journey takes around 15 minutes, costs 1560 yen for an unreserved seat (reserved seats are much more expensive) and is covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and the [Hokuriku Arch Pass](e2361_arch.html).

Alternatively, take the IR Ishikawa Railway and Ainokaze Toyama Railway from Kanazawa to Takaoka Station. The one way journey takes 40 minutes, costs 870 yen and is not covered by the [JR passes](e2357.html).

#### From Toyama

[Toyama](e7500.html) and Shin-Takakoka Station are connected by twice-hourly trains along the [JR Hokuriku Shinkansen](e2018_nagano.html). The one way journey takes around ten minutes and costs 1210 yen for an unreserved seat (reserved seats are much more expensive).

Alternatively, take the Ainokaze Toyama Railway from Toyama Station to Takaoka Station. The one way trip takes around 20 minutes and costs 390 yen. Both routes are fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and the [Hokuriku Arch Pass](e2361_arch.html).

#### From Gokayama/Shirakawago

Kaetsuno Bus operates [local buses](e2015.html) between Takaoka Station, Shin-Takaoka Station, [Gokayama](e5955.html) and [Shirakawago](e5950.html) approximately once every two hours ([see timetable](/bus/gokayama.html)). The one way ride from Takaoka costs 1000-1200 yen to Gokayama and 1800 yen to Shirakawago. In addition, there are also a few [highway buses](e2366.html) between Takaoka Station, Shin-Takaoka Station and Shirakawago that do the one way journey in 60-155 minutes and for 2200 yen ([see timetable](/bus/shirakawago.html)).

#### From Takayama

Several local bus companies operate infrequent [highway buses](e2366.html) between [Takaoka](e7525.html) (Takaoka and Shin-Takaoka stations) and [Takayama](e5900.html). The one way trip takes between 2 and 3.5 hours and costs 3300 yen ([see timetable](/bus/shirakawago.html)).

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](/e/e2196.html).

[Takaoka](e7525.html) has two main train stations: Takaoka Station and Shin-Takaoka Station. **Takaoka Station** is located in the center of the city and is served by local and regional train lines, as well as the tram and [buses](e2015.html). Less than two kilometers to the south, **Shin-Takaoka Station** is served by the [JR Hokuriku Shinkansen](e2018_nagano.html). The two stations are connected by the JR Johana Line (3 minutes, 150 yen one way, one train/hour) or [bus](e2015.html) (10 minutes, 160 yen one way, 3-4 buses/hour). It is also possible to walk between the two stations in about 20-30 minutes.

Most of Takaoka's attractions are located in the city center. The [Great Buddha](e7530.html), the [castle park](e7527.html) and [Zuiryuji Temple](e7529.html) are all within one kilometer of Takakoka Station, while the [historic districts](e7528.html) are about 1.5 kilometers away. Good walkers could consider to explore them all on foot.

The city is served by a single **tram line**, the Manyo Line, that heads from Takaoka Station north through the city center to the port district. It provides access to most of the city's central attractions for 200 yen per ride. The fare increases for longer distances.