---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7675.html
title: Sado Island Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Sado Island, a large island off the coast of Niigata Prefecture.
keywords: sado, island, travel, sightseeing, guide, trip, sadogashima, tourist, tourism, visitor, information
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 330
char_count: 2709
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 22:44:21
---

Sado Island (佐渡島, Sadogashima) lies off the coast of [Niigata Prefecture](/list/e1207.html), and is one of Japan's largest islands.

Due to its remoteness, the island served as place for political exile. The three most prominent figures sent into exile to Sado were the former Emperor Juntoku, the [Buddhist](e2055.html) monk Nichiren and the founder of [Noh](e2091.html), Zeami Motokiyo. While the island is no longer a place of exile, traces of the culture and religion that these forced residents brought with them remain today.

One of Sado's biggest attractions is the [Earth Celebration](e7677.html), an annual music festival hosted by Sado's own, world-renowned Kodo taiko group. The island is also home to the endangered [Japanese Ibis (toki)](e7684.html), once extinct in the wild but successfully reintroduced to the island.

* [](/e/e7677.html)

  1

  Festival

  [Earth Celebration••](/e/e7677.html)

  Music festival by the Kodo taiko group.

  4.9

  

  36
* [](/e/e7678.html)

  2

  Industry/Commerce

  [Sado Gold Mine•](/e/e7678.html)

  Former gold mines, open to the public.

  3.9

  

  104
* [](/e/e7683.html)

  3

  Scenic Ride

  [Osado Skyline](/e/e7683.html)

  Mountain road with scenic views.

  4.3

  

  29
* [](/e/e7682.html)

  4

  Scenic Ride

  [Senkaku Bay](/e/e7682.html)

  Scenic bay along the northern coast.

  3.8

  

  58
* [](/e/e7679.html)

  5

  Historic Site

  [Sado Bugyosho](/e/e7679.html)

  Reconstructed former government building.

  3.4

  

  34
* [](/e/e7680.html)

  6

  Neighborhood

  [Ogi Town](/e/e7680.html)

  Small town in southern Sado.

  3.4

  

  69
* [](/e/e7681.html)

  7

  Museum

  [Sado History Museum](/e/e7681.html)

  About the history and legends of Sado.

  3.3

  

  44
* [](/e/e7684.html)

  8

  Zoo/Wildlife

  [Toki Forest Park](/e/e7684.html)

  Museum and park about the crested ibis.

  10

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Sado](/e/e7675.html)

[Getting to and around Sado Island](/e/e7676.html)
[See access info](/e/e7676.html)