---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7751.html
title: Tokyo to Bandai\: How to get to and around Bandai
description: How to get to and around Bandai.
keywords: bandai, urabandai, azuma, access, directions, transportation, orientation, getting there, bus, train, car
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 514
char_count: 3856
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:24:02
---

From/To:

TokyoAizu-Wakamatsu

[Mount Bandai](e7755.html) and [Urabandai](e7752.html) are best accessed from Inawashiro Station, while the [Azuma Mountains](e7754.html) are better accessed from [Fukushima City](e7725.html).

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

Take the [JR Tohoku Shinkansen](e2018_tohoku.html) from [Tokyo](e2164.html) to Koriyama (80 minutes) and transfer to the JR Banetsu-sai Line to Inawashiro Station (40 minutes). The entire trip costs about 9000 yen one way and is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html) and [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html). From Inawashiro Station, there are [buses](e2015.html) into the [Urabandai](e7752.html) region.

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

[Tokyo](e2164.html) and [Fukushima](e7725.html) stations are connected by the [JR Tohoku Shinkansen](e2018_tohoku.html) (95 minutes, around 9000 yen one way). The trip is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html) and [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html). Public transportation from Fukushima Station is very infrequent to nonexistent, and it is recommended to proceed by [rental car](e2024.html) instead.

[Tokyo](e2164.html) and [Fukushima City](e7725.html) are connected by multiple daytime and overnight [highway buses](e2366.html). The one way trip takes about 5-6 hours and cost around 3000-6000 yen depending on the company and date of travel. Some buses stop in Koriyama along the way (4-5 hours, around 4000 yen from Tokyo), where a transfer can be made to a local train to Inawashiro (40 minutes, 680 yen). Online reservations for some of the buses can be made on the [Willer website](https://willer-travel.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/fukushima/fukushima/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184).

[Book Now](https://willer-travel.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/fukushima/fukushima/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184)

From [Tokyo](e2164.html), take the Tohoku and Banetsu [expressways](e2354.html) via Koriyama Junction and exit at the Inawashiro Bandai Kogen Interchange or the following Bandai Kawahigashi Interchange. The ride takes about three hours and costs around 7000 yen one way in [expressway tolls](e2354.html).

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

While the [Urabandai](e7752.html) region is relatively well served by [buses](e2015.html), public transportation is almost inexistent around the [Azuma Mountains](e7754.html) and between Urabandai and the Azuma Mountains. [Rental cars](e2024.html) are thus recommended as they provide more flexibility and convenience. Car rental outlets are found in [Aizu-Wakamatsu](e7700.html), Kitakata, Koriyama and [Fukushima City](e7725.html).

The **Urabandai** area is served by a relatively frequent [bus](e2015.html) line that connects Inawashiro Station with the resort town and the various hiking trailheads in the [Urabandai](e7752.html) area (one bus every 1-2 hours). Very infrequent bus service is also offered from Kitakata Station in the west.

The **Azuma Mountains** enjoy virtually no public transportation, except for two buses per day that run from Fukushima Station along the [Bandai Azuma Skyline](e7754.html) and back to Fukushima on weekends and [national holidays](e2062.html) from May through September, and everyday from October to early November (these buses have not been in operation since 2019). The Bandai Azuma Skyline is closed due to winter conditions from mid November to late April.