---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7480.html
title: Mount Haruna (Harunasan)
description: Visitor guide for Mount Haruna (Harunasan) and the activities that can be done in its environs.
keywords: mount, haruna, lake, harunasan, ikaho
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 430
char_count: 2960
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:29:04
---

The peak of Haruna Fuji seen from Lake Haruna

Mount Haruna (榛名山, Harunasan) is a 1449 meter high, dormant volcano in [Gunma Prefecture](/list/e1209.html), which together with Mount Myogi and Mount Akagi, form the "Three Famous Mountains of Gunma". At the top of Mount Haruna is a large open caldera and crater lake around which a [hot spring](e2292.html) town and various sporting facilities have been built. [Ikaho Onsen](e7475.html) lies halfway up the mountain along its eastern slopes.

At the center of Mount Haruna's caldera stands a perfectly symmetrical, cone-shaped projection called **Haruna Fuji**, due to its resemblance to [Mount Fuji](e2172.html). A ropeway leads up to the top of Haruna Fuji, from where one can look out over the surrounding landscape. Several hiking trails lead down from the peak and to other locations around the caldera.

The crater lake at the top of Mount Haruna is known as **Lake Haruna** and is a popular spot for boating and fishing. Rowboats and swan shaped pedal boats are available to rent for around 1500 yen per 30 minutes. In winter, the lake is a popular ice-fishing spot and known for the local wakasagi fish, which are served at restaurants around town throughout the year.

[Buses](e2015.html) operate every 1-2 hours between the Ikaho Bus Terminal and Mount Haruna. The one way trip takes about 25 minutes and costs 840 yen.

Mount Haruna can also be reached by direct bus from Takasaki Station. The trip takes about 90 minutes and costs 1420 yen. There is approximately one bus departure per hour.

[How to get to and around Ikaho Onsen](e7476.html)