---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7505.html
title: Toyama Municipal Folkcraft Village
description: Visitor guide for the Toyama's Folkcraft Village and nearby hill of 500 rakan statues.
keywords: Toyama, folkcraft, folklore, museum, museums, art, gallery, galleries, temple, temples, statues
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 732
char_count: 5106
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:14:24
---

The Toyama Municipal Folk Craft Village (富山市民俗民芸村, Toyama-shi Minzoku Mingei Mura) is a collection of multiple small museums in the wooded hills west of downtown [Toyama City](e7500.html). The buildings themselves are often as interesting as the exhibits, with two being gassho-zukuri farmhouses relocated from more rural areas of the city and similar to those found in nearby [Gokayama](e5950.html). Next to the folk village stands Chokeiji Temple with its 500 rakan statues.

Below is a list of the museums found at the folk craft village:

* 

  Museum of Medicine Peddlers

  This museum recounts Toyama's rich history as a center of medicine since the [Edo Period](e2128.html). In particular, Toyama's interesting medicine sales system is revealed, in which customers were sold boxes pre-filled with different types of medicines. Traveling medicine peddlers would then periodically visit customers and refill the boxes with the medicines the customers had used. The museum showcases many tools and machines utilized in the production and sale of medicine.
* 

  Thatched Roof Folk Art Museum

  A majestic and beautifully-maintained gassho-zukuri style farmhouse relocated from a rural area. Inside, visitors can see a big fireplace and the former living quarters of the rich farming family that resided here almost two centuries ago.
* 

  Museum of Folklore

  Another old farmhouse with an emphasis on technology through the ages. The museum displays the progression of domestic technology downstairs with telephones and sewing machines through the ages, while upstairs is dedicated to agricultural technology with a host of equipment on display including tilling tools and sickles.
* 

  Museum of Ceramic Art

  This museum is contained inside a large azuma-dachi farmhouse, a traditional gable roof style of farmhouse. Inside, visitors can see the living quarters of a particularly rich farming family, who used only the highest quality materials in their house's construction. The museum showcases ceramic art from all of [Japan's 47 prefectures](/list/e1002.html).
* 

  Folk Art Museum

  An old farm house converted into a museum that, despite its location in Toyama, focuses on traditional culture from all over Japan and the world. Inside is displayed an informative yet slightly pell-mell collection of clothing and equipment of different places from [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html) to England.
* 

  Museum of Archeology

  This museum reveals the history of the area through the exhibition of archaeological finds including bones and [pottery](e2329.html).
* 

  Takamura Gyujin Memorial Art Museum

  This art gallery showcases some of the work of the late, Toyama-born ink artist Takamura Gyujin. The emotive collection depicts tales from Japanese and Chinese folklore. The gallery also showcases some of the painter's works in water color.

Adjacent to the folk craft village stands **Chokeiji Temple**. Originally built in 1786, the temple is known for its 500 statues of Buddhist disciples (gohyaku rakan) that line the hill next to the main hall. The statues display many different facial expressions and gestures, and no two look the same. The temple grounds have a peaceful atmosphere and afford views of the city below.

Some of the 500 hundred rakan statues, adorned with colorful ribbons

From Toyama Station (bus stand #7), take [bus](e2015.html) number 92 for Kurehayama Rojin Center (呉羽山老人センタ−) and alight at the Toyama Minzoku Mingei (富山市民俗民芸村) bus stop in the center of the folk village. The ride takes 10 minutes and costs 260 yen one way. There is a bus every 1-2 hours.

Alternatively, take tram number 2 or 5 from Toyama Station to Daigaku-mae (15 minute, 210 yen, frequent departures) or the JR Takayama Line to Nishi-Toyama Station (5 minutes, 190 yen, one train/hour) from where the folk village can be reached in a 15-25 minute walk.

[How to get to and around Toyama](e7501.html)