---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7677.html
title: Sado Island Travel\: Earth Celebration
description: About the Earth Celebration taiko festival on Sado Island..
keywords: sado, island, niigata, kodo, taiko, drum, drums, drumming, earth, celebration, festival 
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 404
char_count: 2896
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:29:40
---

**The 2026 Earth Celebration is scheduled for August 21-23**

The Earth Celebration is an annual music festival by the internationally acclaimed Kodo taiko group which is based on [Sado Island](e7675.html). Each year the festival features different guest artists who perform in collaboration with Kodo. The three day event is held in mid to late August in and around [Ogi Town](e7680.html). Thousands of people come from all over Japan and the world to enjoy the festival's many events.

The main event are three outdoor concerts held in the evenings of each festival day in the **Harbour Market** at Ogi Harbor. The Harbor Market also features dozens of small shops and food stands that are open from morning to evening. Some fringe events are held there, as well, during daytime.

Another aspect of the festival are various **workshops**, such as taiko drumming and traditional dance workshops. Most workshops require advance registration, have a participation fees and are held in Japanese. English instructions may not be available. Spaces tend to fill up quickly, and early application is recommended.

### By car

From Ryotsu Port, [Ogi Town](e7680.html) can be reached in about one hour by [car](e2024.html).

### By bus

Take a [bus](e2015.html) along the Main Line from Ryotsu to Sawata (40 minutes, 620 yen, 1-2 buses per hour) and transfer to the Ogi Line for [Ogi](e7680.html) (60 minutes, 840 yen, every 1-2 hours). Alternatively, take the Minami Line (55 minutes, 680 yen, every 1-2 hours) and Ogi Line (50 minutes, 840 yen) via the [Sado History Museum](e7681.html). There are additional buses during the Earth Festival.

### By ferry

It is possible to access [Ogi](e7680.html) directly via the [car ferry](e2355.html) from Naoetsu.

[How to get to and around Sado Island](e7676.html)