---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7461.html
title: Tokyo to Minakami\: How to get to and around Minakami
description: About access, orientation and transportation around Minakami.
keywords: minakami, access, orientation, transportation, guide, travel, directions, train, shinkansen, jomo-kogen, bus
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 479
char_count: 3468
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:31:39
---

From/To:

TokyoKusatsuIkaho

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)(except bus fare)

The [JR Joetsu Shinkansen](e2018_joetsu.html) connects [Tokyo](e2164.html) with Jomo Kogen Station at least once per hour. The one way trip takes around 70 minutes and costs about 5500 yen. From Jomo Kogen Station transfer to a bus for Minakami Station (25 minutes, 720 yen) or another destination in the Minakami area. The shinkansen ride is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), [JR Tokyo Wide Pass](e2361_06.html), [JR East Nagano Niigata Area Pass](e2361_nagano_niigata.html), [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html) and [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html), however the bus ride is not.

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

Take the JR Takasaki Line from [Tokyo](e2164.html) (e.g. Tokyo or Ueno station) to Takasaki Station (two hours, 2-3 trains per hour) and transfer to the JR Joetsu Line to Minakami Station (one hour, hourly). The entire one way trip takes about three hours and costs 3080 yen.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

[Minakami](e7460.html) is a spread out town that covers a large area in the mountains of [Gunma Prefecture](/list/e1209.html). At its center is **Minakami Station** which acts as the transportation hub with [bus](e2015.html) connections to [Mount Tanigawa](e7462.html), [Takaragawa Onsen](e7463.html#takaragawa) and Jomo Kogen Station.

The [Joetsu Shinkansen](e2018_joetsu.html) stops at **Jomo Kogen Station**, a 20 minute bus ride outside of the town center. The shinkansen station serves as a secondary transportation hub for the area with [bus](e2015.html) connections to Minakami Station, [Takumi no Sato](e7466.html), [Sarugakyo Onsen](e7463.html) and nearby Numata City.

A special 3-day bus pass is available to foreign tourists at Minakami Station (through the Association of Minakami Onsen Ryokan) and Jomo Kogen Station (through the Minakami Tourism Association). For 3000 yen, the pass provides unlimited use of local buses, including the buses to the lower station of the [Tanigawa Ropeway](e7462.html), [Takaragawa Onsen](e7463.html#takaragawa) and Sarugakyo (but not the bus between Sarugakyo and [Hoshi Onsen](e7463.html#hoshi)).

Alternatively, a [rental car](e2024.html) is recommended, as public transportation around Minakami can be rather infrequent or inconvenient and the town's attractions are quite spread out. Rental cars are available around Jomo Kogen, Shibukawa and Takasaki stations.