---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7778.html
title: Aquamarine Fukushima
description: Visitor guide for Aquamarine Fukushima, an aquarium in Iwaki City, Fukushima Prefecture.
keywords: aquamarine, iwaki, aquarium, fukushima
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 489
char_count: 3411
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:39:41
---

Aquamarine Fukushima (アクアマリンふくしま) is an [aquarium](e2425.html) located in the city of [Iwaki](e7775.html) along the coast facing the Pacific Ocean. It has an extensive collection of various fish species and does a wonderful job in demonstrating ecosystems in the waters of [Fukushima Prefecture](/list/e1208.html) and different parts of the world. The aquarium was damaged by the [March 2011 tsunami](/news/0018.html) but was reopened four months later.

In one section, the aquatic environment of [Fukushima Prefecture](/list/e1208.html) is recreated from the rivers and lakes in the mountainous interior to the sea shores, exhibiting the diverse animal and plant life. A large triangular tank demonstrates the current rip where the Kuroshio Current from the south and the Oyashio Current from the north meet off the coast of Fukushima.

Waters of Tropical Asia

Among the various other displays, the "Waters of Tropical Asia" attraction recreates the waterside nature of tropical Asia in a greenhouse, and the "Okhotsk Sea" tank puts on display the assortment of creatures that live in the Sea of Okhotsk, northeast of [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html).

The aquarium further keeps a fascinating selection of rare fishes and sea creatures, as well as a large collection of different goldfish. In addition, there is a pool where visitors can try touching starfish, and a marine mammals section where visitors can view seals and walruses.

Observation platform at Misaki Park

A ten minute walk along the waterfront from Aquamarine Fukushima takes you to **Iwaki Rara Myu**, a seafood market where you can dine at a [restaurant](e2036.html) or buy fresh sea products.

A further 25 minute walk takes you to the 60 meter tall **Iwaki Marine Tower**, a landmark within **Misaki Park**. Visitors are able to ascend the tower for a good view of the Pacific Ocean. Misaki Park is a big area with lots of open space designed for families to have a good time together outdoors. There are playgrounds for children, including a maze and a long slide. There is also an interesting platform protruding out above the sea, providing a scenic vantage point.

Iwaki Marine Tower

Aquamarine Fukushima is a short walk from the Aeon Mall Iwaki Onahama, which is connected by buses from Yumoto Station (East Exit) every 1-2 hours (30 minutes, 510 yen one way) and hourly from Izumi Station (15 minutes, 290 yen one way), which is also served by [limited express](e2016.html#category) trains along the JR Joban Line.

[How to get to and around Iwaki](e7776.html)