---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7555.html
title: Midagahara Wetlands
description: Visitor guide for Midagahara, an alpine highland along the Tateyama Kurobe Alpine Route.
keywords: midagahara, highland, alpine, route, tateyama, hiking
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 504
char_count: 3498
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:22:04
---

Midagahara (弥陀ヶ原) is an alpine marshland along the [Tateyama Kurobe Alpine Route](e7550.html) on an expansive highland plateau 1930 meters above sea level. It is located west of [Murodo](e7553.html), just a few kilometers down the mountain from the [Tateyama Snow Corridor](e7553.html) in an area that is covered in snow from late autumn through spring. From June to October, however, the wetland marsh becomes a popular [hiking](e2427.html) spot for its natural scenery and the variety of plants that grow there. Autumn is especially nice, as many of the alpine plants [change colors](e2014.html) around October.

Buses along the Alpine Route run by the marsh, stopping at the Midagahara bus stop next to the [Midagahara Hotel](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/midagahara.html?aid=371183), a fully provisioned, Western-style hotel. A network of hiking trails, centered at the bus stop, covers the marshland and surroundings. Many trails lead along elevated, wooden boardwalks built to protect the environment. Trail maps are available at the information center near the bus stop.

The Tateyama mountains tower above Midagahara

Among the trails, two circuits are particularly popular: an easy 1-km loop that takes about 30 minutes, and a longer 2-km loop that takes about one hour to pass by all of the marsh's ponds and viewpoints. But it is also possible to hike all the way to [Murodo](e7553.html) in about three hours. Furthermore, a separate, 40 minute long trail leads from the Midagahara Hotel up the slope to the Tateyama Caldera Observatory with views over the expansive plateau below.

Along the marshland's trails, hikers are treated to beautiful views of the marsh set against the backdrop of the Tateyama Mountains in one direction and views of [Toyama City](e7500.html), the [Noto Peninsula](e4250.html) and the Sea of Japan in the other. The marshland is also high enough for lucky visitors to witness a sea of clouds that sometimes forms over the Toyama Plain below.

Looking out over Toyama City and the Sea of Japan

Midagahara is located halfway along the bus ride between Bijodaira and [Murodo](e7553.html) along the [Tateyama Kurobe Alpine Route](e7550.html). From [Toyama](e7500.html) Station it takes about 2.5 hours and 4440 yen one way by train, cablecar and bus to reach. From JR Shinano-Omachi Station on the [Nagano](/list/e1216.html) side, it takes about 2.5 hours and 9920 yen by bus, cablecar and ropeway.

[How to get to and around the Tateyama Kurobe Alpine Route](e7551.html)