---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7406.html
title: Mount Kusatsu-Shirane
description: Visitor guide for Mount Shirane, the active volcano just above Kutsatu Town.
keywords: kusatsu, mount, shirane, volcano, kusatsushirane
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 1773
char_count: 11680
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:15:39
---

Yugama Crater Lake

Volcanic Activity Update

Updated: December 1, 2025

Due to a heightened risk of volcanic activity, two no-entry zones are maintained around the summits of Mount Shirane. The road leading to Mount Shirane runs through one of the no-entry zones and is currently closed to traffic. Bus service to Mount Shirane is interrupted, and the Yugama crater cannot be viewed.

Mount Shirane (白根山, Shiranesan, often called Kusatsu-Shirane to differentiate it from other mountains called Shirane) is a series of [volcanic peaks](e2327.html) just outside the town of [Kusatsu Onsen](e7400.html). It is a popular outdoor recreation area which offers [hiking](e2427_where.html) in the spring and summer, [autumn colors](e2014.html) in the fall and [skiing](e2262.html) in the winter.

[Hiking](e2427_where.html) is possible from mid April to early November and offers varying terrain and good views, along with a selection of trails starting at the town center or the Shirane Resthouse near the summit. The easiest and most popular walk is from the Shirane Resthouse to Yugama Crater Lake, which takes less than ten minutes along a paved trail. At the top you are rewarded by views of the sulfurous, baby blue Yugama Crater Lake and surrounding mountain ranges.

Yumiike Pond and the parking lot

The road to Mount Shirane is closed during winter from mid November to late April. Paid [parking](e2024.html) is provided at the Shirane Resthouse This is also where the [bus](e2015.html) stop is located.

Important note: buses to Mount Shirane remain out of service.

### From Kusatsu Onsen

From late April to early November, there are [buses](e2015.html) between the Kusatsu Bus Terminal in the town center of [Kusatsu Onsen](e7400.html) and the Shirane Resthouse (30 minutes, 1130 yen one way, one bus every 1-2 hours). Some - but not all - of these buses are operated by JR and are covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), [JR East Nagano Niigata Area Pass](e2361_nagano_niigata.html) and [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html).

### From Manza Onsen

From late April to late October, there are infrequent [buses](e2015.html) between the [Manza Onsen](e7495.html) (Manza Prince Hotel) and [Kusatsu Onsen](e7400.html) that make a stop at the Shirane Resthouse along the way. The one way ride between Manza and the Shirane Resthouse takes 15 minutes and costs 430 yen. The buses are not covered by the any JR passes.

### From Yudanaka, the snow monkeys and Shiga Kogen

From late April to early November, there are [buses](e2015.html) between [Yudanaka Station](e6024.html) in [Yamanouchi](e6025.html) and the Shirane Resthouse (70 minutes, 1700 yen one way, one bus every 1-2 hours) that stop along the way in [Shibu Onsen](e6029.html), the [Snow Monkey Park](e6028.html) bus stop and [Shiga Kogen](e6026.html). The buses are not covered by any JR passes.

[How to get to and around Kusatsu Onsen](e7403.html)