---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7502.html
title: Toyama Castle Park
description: Visitor guide for Toyama Castle Park in Toyama City.
keywords: toyama, castle, castles, park, parks, history, art, museum, museums
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 366
char_count: 2680
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:51:12
---

Toyama Castle Park (富山城址公園, Toyama Jōshi Kōen) covers the former grounds of Toyama Castle in central [Toyama](e7500.html). The park contains a reconstructed castle keep, an art museum, a nice [Japanese garden](e2099.html), spacious lawns and a statue of the former local lord. It is a popular spot for [cherry blossom viewing](e2011.html) usually around early to mid April.

The [castle](e2296.html) was originally constructed in 1543. During the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868), it served as the base of the Toyama branch of the Maeda clan whose cousins controlled neighboring Kaga Province from [Kanazawa](e2167.html) and were second in wealth only to the shogun. The **castle keep** was dismantled during the [Meiji Period](e2130.html) (1868-1912) but was rebuilt in 1954 in ferro-concrete, while some parts of the original walls and moats remain. The inside of the keep houses the "Toyama Municipal Folk Museum" which recounts the city's and castle's history. An observation deck is located on the top floor.

Across the park, the **Sato Memorial Art Museum** showcases the extensive art collection of Sato Sukekuro, a wealthy entrepreneur from Toyama. As well as paintings, ornaments and local lacquerware, the museum also exhibits some [traditional Japanese tea rooms](e2096.html).

The Sato Memorial Art Museum behind the park's Japanese garden

Toyama Castle Park is located a 15 minute walk from Toyama Station or a short walk from the Kokusai-kaigijo-mae stop on tram line number 3 or 6.

[How to get to and around Toyama](e7501.html)