---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7201.html
title: Ishigaki Island Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Ishigaki Island, the main island of the Yaeyama Islands in Okinawa Prefecture.
keywords: ishigaki, ishigakijima, island, travel, trip, guide, sightseeing, tourism, tourist, visitor, information
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 2796
char_count: 18905
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:19:46
---

Kabira Bay

Ishigaki Island (石垣島, Ishigakijima) is the main island of the [Yaeyama Islands](e7200.html) and the region's transportation hub. Ishigaki City, Japan's southernmost city, is the only urban center of the Yaeyama Islands and the site of the region's major [airport](e2365.html) and ferry terminal, as well as of lots of hotels, shops, restaurants and bars.

Ishigaki offers several nice [beaches](e2461.html) and good [snorkeling](e2424_snorkeling.html) and [diving](e2424_diving.html) in the surrounding coral reefs. Snorkeling can be enjoyed at nearly every beach on the island, while diving is offered through the numerous dive shops with tours available for all experience levels. A diving highlight is Manta Scramble near [Kabira Bay](e7201.html#kabira), where manta rays congregate in large numbers.

Ishigaki's rivers, while not quite as wild as those of nearby [Iriomote](e7225.html), also offer a jungle-like scenery and are nice to explore by kayak. Ishigaki also has the highest mountain in [Okinawa Prefecture](/list/e1247.html), as well as various hiking trails throughout the island's hilly interior.

The view from Tamatorizaki Observation Point

### Beaches

Ishigaki Island has both sandy [beaches](e2461.html) and rocky beaches which are covered in small pieces of bleached coral. At the beaches you can enjoy swimming (best during high tide), [snorkeling](e2424_snorkeling.html), and [diving](e2424_diving.html), or just lay in the sun; and while the beaches are open year round, they are best from April to November when the air temperature consistently tops 25 degrees. The beaches usually have public facilities such as showers, restrooms and rental shops; however, there are no lifeguards, and the facilities may be closed outside of summer.

When using the beaches, always beware of strong currents that can pull you out to sea and poisonous creatures such as Habu Jellyfish, a type of box jellyfish, that are most prevalent from June to October. Signs in English inform about the dangers while some beaches have netted-off swimming areas. Although jellyfish stings are rare, if stung you should pour vinegar over the sting, remove any tentacles and seek medical help.

* 

  Yonehara Beach

  Admission: free, 500 yen for parking

  This is one of Ishigaki's nicest [beaches](e2461.html) with some of the best [snorkeling](e2424_snorkeling.html) on the island. The beach is mostly covered in pieces of white coral, and its reef offers great snorkeling and [diving](e2424_diving.html). There are shower, restroom and changing facilities, and snorkeling equipment can be rented at the camping site nearby.
* 

  Sukuji Beach

  Admission: free, no parking fees

  The one kilometer long Sukuji Beach, near [Kabira Bay](e7201.html#kabira), is one of Ishigaki Island's nicest [sand beaches](e2461.html). The waters are shallow with a sandy bottom and offer swimming and [snorkeling](e2424_snorkeling.html) with a portion of the beach netted off to protect swimmers from habu jellyfish. Showers, restrooms and changing rooms are located near the parking area. The Club Med Kabira Ishigaki resort is located at one end of the beach.
* 

  Sunset Beach

  Admission: 500 yen for facilities and 500 yen for parking

  Sunset Beach is a sandy [beach](e2461.html) located in a cove along the western side of Ishigaki's tail shaped northeastern peninsula. The beach is a short walk down from the parking lot and offers swimming and [snorkeling](e2424_snorkeling.html) that is good even during low tide. Most of the beach is surrounded by a net to protect swimmers from habu jellyfish. Next to the parking lot are picnic areas and paid showers and restrooms.

### Nature

While Ishigaki Island is the most populous of the Yaeyama Islands, there is still a lot of nature to experience. In addition to the island's beaches and coral reefs, the interior of Ishigaki has palm forests, mangrove-lined rivers and jungle-covered mountains that offer hiking and camping.

* 

  Kabira Bay

  Boat departures: 9:00 to 17:00  
  Boat fee: 1300 yen

  Emerald blue Kabira Bay (Kabirawan) is considered Ishigaki Island's most scenic view. Swimming, [snorkeling](e2424_snorkeling.html) and [diving](e2424_diving.html) in the bay are not allowed, but a touristy 30 minute long glass bottom boat ride lets you take a look at the bay's underwater world. Kabira Bay, along with [Iriomote](e7225.html), are the only two cultivation sites of black pearls in Japan.
* 

  River Kayak Tours

  Tours depart in the mornings and afternoons  
  Fee: around 4500 yen for a 90-minute tour

  Kayak tours are offered on the mangrove lined Miyara River (not far from the city center) and Fukido River (near Yonehara Beach). Tours start around 4500 yen per person for a 90 minute guided tour. Unguided boat rentals are not available.
* 

  Tamatorizaki Observation Point

  Hours: always open  
  Admission: free

  This is an observation platform offering nice views of Cape Tamatori, Ibaruma Bay, Ishigaki's hilly northern peninsula and the emerald blue ocean with its coral reefs.
* 

  Yonehara Palm Tree Groves

  Hours: always open  
  Admission: free

  Walking trails lead through this palm forest, which features several dozen types of palm tree varieties, including the tall, native Yaeyama Palm, a designated national natural monument.

### History

The Yaeyama Islands have a rich history and culture going back to before their incorporation into Japan, when they were part of the Ryukyu Kingdom.

* 

  Yaeyama Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Mondays (or next day if Mon is a [public holiday](e2062.html)), Dec 29 to Jan 3  
  Admission: 200 yen

  The Yaeyama Museum displays historical and cultural items of the Yaeyama Islands. On display are wooden canoes, [pottery](e2329.html), traditional clothing and household items as well as items from the various festivals and cultural events held among the islands.
* 

  Tojinbaka

  Hours: always open  
  Admission: free

  A lavishly decorated grave for 300 Chinese laborers, who were supposed to be shipped to the Americas as mine workers by American and British traders in the mid 1800s, but many of whom were massacred after a mutiny raised by the inhumanly treated Chinese. The incident happened to partially take place on Ishigaki.
* 

  Miyara Dunchi

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: Tuesdays, January 1-3  
  Admission: 200 yen

  Miyara Dunchi is a preserved [samurai](e2127.html) style residence, built by a local nobleman in 1819. Similar residences on [Okinawa Honto](e7101.html) were mostly destroyed in the [war](e7105.html), making Miyara Dunchi a rare surviving example. It is not possible to enter the house, but you can walk around the outside of the house and visit its small [garden](e2099.html).
* 

  Ishigaki Yaima Village

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:30 (entry until 17:00)  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 1200 yen

  Ishigaki Yaima Village is a collection of relocated [Yaeyama Island](e7200.html)-style residences from across the archipelago. There are a variety of activities at the village including a traditional song and dance performance which is held a few times daily in one of the houses and reminiscent of the traditional form of entertainment. There is also a small mangrove area, a squirrel monkey park as well as a restaurant and a souvenir shop.

### How to get to Ishigaki Island

Ishigaki Island is the transportation hub of the [Yaeyama Islands](e7200.html). Please visit the [Yaeyama orientation page](e7202.html) for information on how to get to Ishigaki.

### How to get around Ishigaki Island

Ishigaki Airport is located ten kilometers outside of Ishigaki's city center.

A [rental car](e2024.html) is the recommended means of transportation to get around Ishigaki Island. All major Japanese rental car companies have outlets on the island. Most of the island's attractions are within a 30-45 minute drive of Ishigaki City, except for the northernmost peninsula, the tip of which is about 35 kilometers from the city center.

[Buses](e2015.html) operate frequently between the airport and central Ishigaki. There are two types of buses: buses that stop only at the airport and the ferry terminal in the city center (30 minutes, 500 yen one way, every 30 minutes) and buses that serve several stops between the airport and the bus terminal in the city center (35-40 minutes, 540 yen one way, every 30 minutes).

Bus connections to other places on the island are much less frequent. Among them, the Kabira Line connects central Ishigaki with Kabira Bay once every 1-3 hours (45 minutes, 730 yen one way), while the even less frequent Yonehara Line connects central Ishigaki and the airport via Yonehara Beach with Kabira Bay. A 1-day pass for all bus lines is available for 1000 yen, while a 5-day pass costs 2000 yen.

A [taxi](e2021.html) ride between the airport and Ishigaki's city center takes about 30 minutes and costs around 3000 yen.

[How to get to the Yaeyama Islands](e7202.html)