---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7776.html
title: Tokyo to Iwaki\: How to get to and around Iwaki
description: Access, Orientation and transportation in Iwaki\: how to get to and around Iwaki.
keywords: Iwaki, fukushima, orientation, transportation, access, get there, directions, train, bus
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 415
char_count: 3041
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:39:49
---

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

[Tokyo](e2164.html) (Ueno Station) and [Iwaki](e7775.html) (Yumoto and Iwaki stations) are connected by hourly Super Hitachi [limited express](e2016.html) trains along the JR Joban Line (2 hours, around 6000 yen). The trip is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html) and [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html). Note that Yumoto Station is closer to most of the city's tourist attractions than Iwaki Station in the city center.

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

By local trains, the one way trip from Tokyo's Ueno Station to Iwaki's Yumoto Station takes about four hours and involves one transfer of trains at [Mito](e6200.html). The regular one way fare is 3740 yen.

Multiple bus companies operate hourly [highway buses](e2366.html) between [Tokyo](e2164.html) Station and [Iwaki](e2164.html) Station (3 hours, 4600-4800 yen). Instead of using Iwaki Station, it can be more convenient to get off at the Iwaki Yumoto IC bus stop (160 minutes, 4400-4600 yen), not far from the [Spa Resort Hawaiians](e7777.html), from where infrequent local buses provide transportation to Yumoto Station and the spa resort.

[Spa Resort Hawaiians](e7777.html) runs daily, free bus services for staying guests to and from [Tokyo](e2164.html) Station (3 hours), [Shinjuku](e3011.html) Station (3.5 hours), [Yokohama](e2156.html) Station (3.5 hours) and Saitama Shintoshin Station (3 hours). Advance reservations are required.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

Most of the attractions in [Iwaki](e7775.html) are located near Yumoto Station and the Onahama (小名浜) port area, rather than in the city center around Iwaki Station. Some attractions are located within walking distance of Yumoto Station, while [Spa Resort Hawaiians](e7777.html) is accessible from the station by [local buses](e2015.html) or free shuttle bus. Local buses run between the Onahama area and both Yumoto and Izumi stations.

An alternative would be to tour the city by [rental car](e2024.html), which can be convenient considering that some of the attractions are accessible only by infrequent local buses. Car rental outlets can be found close to Iwaki and Izumi stations.