---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7753.html
title: Bandai Ski Resorts
description: Travel guide for the ski resorts around Mount Bandai, a popular ski area in Fukushima Prefecture, Japan.
keywords: bandai, inawashiro, lake, ski, skiing, snowboard, winter, snow, sport, sports, resort, resorts
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 474
char_count: 3613
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:04:47
---

View of Lake Inawashiro from Inawashiro Ski Resort

Multiple [ski resorts](e2262_resort.html) can be found on the slopes of [Mount Bandai](e7755.html) in [Fukushima Prefecture](/list/e1208.html) and the surrounding mountains. The resorts offer courses for [skiers and snowboarders](e2262.html) of all levels, high quality powder snow and an attractive natural surrounding that includes Lake Inawashiro.

There are over a dozen resorts of various sizes in the area, some on the southern front side of the mountain (Omotebandai) and some on its backside ([Urabandai](e7752.html)). The resorts typically open from early to mid December to early May. Some offer shuttle bus services to Koriyama Station (the nearest [shinkansen](e2018.html) station) or Inawashiro Station.

Mount Nekoma

Mount Nekoma is a large ski resort on both sides of Mount Nekoma, just besides Mount Bandai. It was formed by the merger of the Alts Bandai and Nekoma ski resort in 2023. A lift connects the two ski areas across the top of the mountain. The northern slopes have a longer season than the southern ones.

Season\*

**Late November to early May**  
(November 29, 2025 to May 6, 2026)

Lifts

13 lifts

Tickets

Full day
6300 yen

Afternoon
5800 yen

Nighter
2500 yen

Access

Bus/Train
85 minutes by free shuttle service from Koriyama Station.

Car
5 kilometers from Bandai Kawahigashi Interchange.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

Inawashiro

Another relatively large resort with nice views over Lake Inawashiro. The resort also has a kid's park where children can play in snow.

Season\*

**Mid December to late March**  
(December 19, 2025 to March 22, 2026)

Lifts

9 lifts

Tickets

Full day
6600 yen

Half day
5600 yen

Nighter
3600-7200 yen

Access

Bus/Train
15 minutes by free shuttle bus from Inawashiro Station.

Car
5 kilometers from Inawashiro Bandai Kogen Interchange.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

En Resort Grandeco

Located in the back of the Urabandai region, this resort is known to have particularly good snow. Lift ticket prices vary between weekdays and weekends, and are lower in the shoulder seasons.

Season\*

**Late November to late April**  
(November 22, 2025 to April 19, 2026)

Lifts

4 lifts

Tickets

Full day
5900-6500 yen

Afternoon
4000-4600 yen

Nighter
N/A

Access

Bus/Train
40 minutes by free shuttle service from Inawashiro Station.

Car
24 kilometers from Inawashiro Bandai Kogen Interchange.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

[How to get to and around Bandai](e7751.html)