---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7642.html
title: Myoko Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for the ski resorts around Mount Myoko and Kyoko Kogen in Niigata Prefecture, Japan.
keywords: myoko, ski, resort, snow, snowboard, powder, mount, kogen, travel, guide, tourism, tourist, visitor, information, sightseeing
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 1105
char_count: 7550
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:49:56
---

Mount Myoko (妙高山, Myōkō-san) is a [volcano](e2327.html) in western [Niigata Prefecture](/list/e1207.html) and one of Japan's oldest [snow resort](e2262.html) areas. Blessed with an incredible 13-16 meters of snowfall on average each winter, the Myoko area is a top destination in the country for deep powder skiing and snowboarding, and offers interesting terrain for riders at all levels to enjoy.

A handful of separate resorts are spread across the mountain's slopes. Of the main resorts, [Myoko Akakura](#akakura) is the largest, and is where most of Myoko's accommodation, restaurants, bars and shops can be found. [Myoko Suginohara](#suginohara) is another standout resort claiming to have one of the country's longest runs at 8.5 kilometers. It is also where a Singaporean real estate investment company plans to build a new luxury resort town over the coming years.

Other Myoko resorts include [Ikenotaira](#ikenotaira) with good beginner and intermediate runs, and [Seki Onsen](#seki), a tiny but well-loved mecca for powder hunters.

In-bounds off-piste areas through trees are well-marked

Below the ski slopes, [onsen](e2292.html) are Myoko's next claim to fame. Ranging from secluded outdoor baths to posh modern ski hotels, many hot spring sources and traditional [ryokan](e2029.html) are scattered around the area - especially around the bases of the major resorts. While the town has developed over the years to accommodate the winter crowds (and growing numbers of foreign visitors), the mom and pop shops, foot baths and old ryokan around each corner still lend Myoko some rural charm.

Myoko Akakura Ski Area

Akakura is Myoko's largest ski area and one of Japan's oldest, operating since 1937. Though technically two separate, interconnected resorts - Akakura Kanko Resort and Akakura Onsen - Akakura is often explored as one with an all-mountain pass. With a wide range of terrain (graced with Myoko's legendary snow), good lift infrastructure and facilities (including an English speaking ski school and child care), and the bustling Akakura Onsen village at its feet, this resort will likely be your base on a visit to Myoko.

Season\*

**Mid December to early May**  
(Akakura Kanko Resort: December 19, 2025 to May 6, 2026)  
(Akakura Onsen: December 13, 2025 to March 29, 2026)

Lifts

20 lifts

Tickets

Full day
7000 yen (Akakura Kanko Resort)  
7000 yen (Akakura Onsen)  
8500 yen (Both)

Half day
5400 yen (Akakura Kanko Resort)  
6500 yen (Akakura Onsen)

Nighter
3500 yen (Akakura Onsen only)

Access

Train/taxi
About 40 minutes by train from Nagano Station; 10 minutes by taxi from Myokokogen Station.

Car
About 1 hour by car from Nagano City; 5 minutes from the Myokokogen IC expressway exit.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

Myoko Suginohara Ski Area

Located about 5 kilometers south of Akakura, Suginohara is a medium-sized resort with Myoko's highest elevation and longest runs. Suginohara's pistes are mostly well groomed intermediate and beginner cruisers, but nice in-bounds off-piste and sidecountry options are also on offer for more advanced riders.

Season\*

**Late December to late March**  
(December 13, 2025 to March 29, 2026)

Lifts

5 lifts

Tickets

Full day
8000 yen

Half day
7200 yen

Access

Train/taxi
About 40 minutes by train from Nagano Station; 15 minutes by taxi from Myokokogen Station.

Car
About 1 hour by car from Nagano City; 10 minutes from the Myokokogen IC expressway exit.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

Ikenotaira Ski Area

Ikenotaira, part of the Alpen Blick Resort, is a more mellow alternative to Akakura and Suginohara, well-suited to beginners and intermediate riders. As it also enjoys Myoko's abundant powder snow, it can be a a good place for learning how to ride in deep snow, also featuring an international ski school.

Season\*

**Mid December to late March**  
(December 13, 2025 to March 29, 2026)

Lifts

5 lifts

Tickets

Full day
6900 yen

Half day
5600 yen

Access

Train/taxi
About 40 minutes by train from Nagano Station; 10 minutes by taxi from Myokokogen Station.

Car
About 1 hour by car from Nagano City; 5 minutes from the Myokokogen IC expressway exit.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

Seki Onsen Ski Area

Seki Onsen is a precious gem among powder hunters. It is tiny, with only two lifts and six mostly intermediate courses. But what it lacks in size it makes up in snowfall, receiving so much that it regularly extends its season into May (much later than its neighbors). Unusually for a Honshu resort, there is no ban on off-piste skiing and snowboarding, allowing experienced riders to thoroughly explore its steep wooded terrain and venture well into the sidecountry for fresh runs.

Season\*

**Late December to early May**  
(From December 23, 2025)

Lifts

2 lifts

Tickets

Full day
4500 yen

Half day
3500 yen

Access

Train/bus
About 40 minutes by train from Nagano Station; 30 minutes by bus from Sekiyama Station (no buses from Myokokogen Station).

Car
About 1 hour by car from Nagano City; 20 minutes from the Myokokogen IC expressway exit.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

### How to get to Myoko

Myoko is located close to the [Hokuriku Shinkansen](e2018_nagano.html). Most visitors to Myoko from eastern Japan will find it easiest to travel via Nagano Station, while Joetsumyoko Station can be the better station to get off when coming from western Japan:

#### Via Nagano Station *([how to get to Nagano](e6003.html))*

From most places in eastern Japan, including [Tokyo](e2164.html), Myoko is most easily accessible via Nagano City. From Nagano Station, take the Shinano Railway to Myokokogen Station (45 minutes, 850 yen one way, 1 train/hour, not covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html)) from where it is a short [taxi](e2021.html) or [bus](e2015.html) ride to the ski resorts.

#### Via Joetsumyoko Station

From many places in western Japan, e.g. [Osaka](e2157.html) and [Kanazawa](e2167.html), Myoko is more easily accessed via Joetsumyoko Station along the [Hokuriku Shinkansen](e2018_nagano.html). From Joetsumyoko Station, take the Echigo Tokimeki Railway to Myokokogen Station (35 minute, 790 yen one way, 1 train/hour, not covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html)) from where it is a short [taxi](e2021.html) or [bus](e2015.html) ride to the ski resorts.

### Getting around

Most ski resorts are located within a 10-15 minute [taxi](e2021.html) from Myokokogen Station. City buses connect Myokokogen Station every 1-2 hours to the Akakura ski resorts (10-15 minutes, 350-380 yen) and the surroundings of the Iketaira (15 minutes, 280 yen) and Suginohara resorts (15-20 minutes, 480 yen). Seki Onsen is not connected to the other resorts or Myokokogen Station. Instead, Seki Onsen can be reached by bus from Sekiyama Station (25 minutes, 440 yen one way, every 2-3 hours), one station north of Myokokogen Station.