---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7126.html
title: Okinawa Prefectural Museum
description: Visitor guide for the Okinawa Prefectural Museum, which includes both a historical museum and art museum.
keywords: okinawa, prefectural, museum, naha, ryukyu, art, history
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 1922
char_count: 13178
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:33:19
---

The Okinawa Prefectural Museum (沖縄県立博物館, Okinawa Kenritsu Hakubutsukan) is a great place to learn more about [Okinawa](/list/e1247.html)'s unique culture. The museum was previously located near [Shuri Castle](e7103.html), but was relocated and reopend in a modern building in 2007. It consists of two separate museums: a history museum and an art museum.

The **history museum** covers the entire history of Okinawa from before the time of the [Ryukyu Kingdom](e7125.html) to modern times. The scope of the museum is wide and includes natural history, folklore, crafts and archaeology. There is a great deal of well presented information about Okinawan culture and history which visitors could spend a few hours exploring.

The **art museum** is a bit smaller than the history museum and features a variety of art forms in multiple galleries, including sculptures, paintings, sketches and videos. The museum's collection focuses on local artists and themes, and the works on display are generally modern or contemporary. There is also space for special exhibitions, which come with separate admission fees.

Outdoor displays of traditional Okinawan architecture

The Okinawa Prefectural Museum is located in central [Naha](e7102.html), a ten minute walk northwest of Omoromachi Station on the Okinawa Monorail. Alternatively, it is served by multiple [bus](e2015.html) lines, including bus number 10 which runs from Naha Bus Terminal along [Kokusaidori](e7114.html) to the museum. Get off at Kenritsu Hakubutsukan-mae (県立博物館前, 240 yen, hourly).

[How to get to and around Naha](e7118.html)