---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7831.html
title: Oboke Gorge and Koboke Gorge
description: Visitor guide for the Oboke Gorge in Iya.
keywords: oboke, koboke, gorge, yoshino, river, cruise, sightseeing, boat
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 549
char_count: 3793
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:07:56
---

Oboke Gorge (大歩危, Ōboke) and neighboring Koboke Gorge (小歩危) a little ways downstream, are narrow, steep-sided gorges near the entrance to the [Iya Valley](e7827.html) and popularly combined with a visit there. Cut by the swirling rapids of the Yoshino River, their names mean "big dangerous steps" and "small dangerous steps" as their jagged, rocky walls can be perilous to navigate.

The gorges are one of the leading outdoor destinations in Japan, rivaling [Minakami](e7460.html) in [Gunma Prefecture](/list/e1209.html), and are known for their beautiful natural scenery and for the variety of outdoor activities available, such as whitewater rafting and canyoning.

* 

  Oboke Sightseeing Boat Cruise

  Departures from 9:00 to 16:30  
  Closed: during very bad weather and high water levels  
  Admission: 1500 yen

  On this gentle 30 minute boat ride down the Yoshino River, guides point out interesting rocks, many of which resemble different animals, along the way. Boats depart and return to a dock a short ways away from Lapis Oboke and Oboke Station. Passengers take off their shoes and sit on the floor of the boat during the cruise.
* 

  Lapis Oboke

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: Tuesdays from Dec to Feb (or next day if Tue is a [national holiday](e2062.html))  
  Admission: 700 yen (both museums)

  Lapis Oboke is a rest area (Michi no Eki) near Oboke Station with a tourist information center, restaurant, shop and a funny little Yokai Museum featuring models and dioramas of the ghosts and monsters (yokai) that are part of the local folklore. A small gem museum resides on the floor above the Yokai Museum.
* 

  River Rafting

  Hours: 8:00 to 18:00  
  Season: March to November  
  Admission: Half day tours start from around 6000 yen

  The Yoshino River is one of Japan's most well known destinations for whitewater rafting, and several outdoor adventure companies offer guided tours on the river. Half day and full day rafting tours are available, as well as a variety of other adventures sports such as canyoning and standup paddleboarding.

The hourly [limited express](e2016.html#category) trains between [Okayama](e5700.html) and [Kochi](e5600.html) stop at Oboke Station along the way. Alternatively, Oboke can be reached from Awa-Ikeda Station by train (30 minutes, 530 yen by infrequent local train or 980 yen for an unreserved seats on an hourly limited express train) or bus (40 minutes, 670 yen, every 2-3 hours).

[How to get to and around the Iya Valley](e7826.html)