---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7825.html
title: Iya Valley Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for the Iya Valley, a remote valley in Tokushima Prefecture.
keywords: tokushima, travel, iya, valley, tourist, tourism, guide, information, sightseeing, visit, visitor
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 369
char_count: 2811
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:47:11
---

The [Iya Valley](e7827.html) (祖谷渓, Iyakei) is a remote, mountainous valley in western [Tokushima Prefecture](/list/e1234.html). Located in the heart of [Shikoku Island](/list/e1107.html), the secluded valley is characterized by steep mountain slopes and deep rocky gorges which were traditionally crossed by vine bridges. Three of the bridges, [Iya Kazurabashi](e7828.html) and the [Oku-Iya Kazurabashi](e7829.html) bridges, are maintained to this day and remain some of the most popular attractions of the area. Iya is also known for [hot springs](e2292.html) and outdoor activities.

Due to its remoteness, the valley has served as a refuge for members of the Taira Clan who escaped to the region after losing the Gempei War (1180-1185) at the end of the [Heian Period](e2132.html). Their descendants can still be found hundreds of years later around the [Iya Valley](e7827.html) and in other remote regions of Japan, such as [Shirakawago](e5950.html), [Yunishigawa](e3882.html), and the [Noto Peninsula](e4250.html).

* [](/e/e7829.html)

  1

  Historic Site

  [Oku-Iya Kazurabashi•](/e/e7829.html)

  A pair of vine bridges deep back in the valley.

  4.4

  

  52
* [](/e/e7827.html)

  2

  Nature

  [Iya Valley•](/e/e7827.html)

  Remote valley in the center of Shikoku.

  4.1

  

  107
* [](/e/e7828.html)

  3

  Historic Site

  [Iya Kazurabashi•](/e/e7828.html)

  Nice vine bridge stretching across the river.

  3.8

  

  91
* [](/e/e7831.html)

  4

  Scenic Ride

  [Oboke Gorge](/e/e7831.html)

  Nice gorge at the entrance to the Iya Valley.

  3.9

  

  96
* [](/e/e7830.html)

  5

  Nature

  [Mount Tsurugi](/e/e7830.html)

  Second tallest mountain on Shikoku.

  3.6

  

  35

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Iya](e7825.html)

[Getting to and around Iya Valley](e7826.html)
[See access info](e7826.html)