---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7109.html
title: Churaumi Aquarium
description: Visitor guide for the Okinawa Churaumi Aquarium, one of largest aquariums in the world.
keywords: churaumi, aquarium, okinawa
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 2180
char_count: 14574
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:32:54
---

The Churaumi Aquarium (美ら海水族館, Churaumi Suizokukan) is widely considered Japan's best [aquarium](e2425.html). It is the main attraction of the [Ocean Expo Park](e7111.html) on the former grounds of the 1975 International Ocean Expo in northern [Okinawa Honto](e7101.html). The aquarium was completely redesigned and reopened in 2002.

The highlight of a visit to the Churaumi Aquarium is the massive **Kuroshio Tank**, one of the largest in the world. The tank takes its name from the warm Kuroshio current which plays a large part in the variety of Okinawa's of marine life. The tank contains a wide variety of species, the most striking of which are the giant whale sharks and manta rays.

A large scale exhibit of living coral

The aquarium is spread out over three floors with the entrance on the third floor and the exit on the first floor. Near the entrance is a tank with a large scale exhibit of living coral. The route then leads past the Kuroshio Tank, where visitors will likely want to spend quite a bit of time. Feeding shows are held twice daily. Located just beside the tank is a high definition movie theater about Okinawa's marine life.

Past the Kuroshio Tank are a few more interesting tanks and displays including an area dedicated to sharks with live tiger sharks and bull sharks. Another area is dedicated to marine life in the extremely deeps waters of Okinawa and includes displays of bioluminescent fish.

Outside of the main aquarium building, there are a few outdoor pools near the waterfront where shows of dolphins, sea turtles and manatees can be viewed for free.

The Kuroshio Tank seen from below

The Churaumi Aquarium is part of the [Ocean Expo Park](e7111.html) on the Motobu Peninsula in northern [Okinawa Honto](e7101.html), about 90 kilometers from [Naha](e7102.html).

### By direct bus from Naha

The Okinawa Airport Shuttle, the Yanbaru Express and bus line 117 directly connect the airport and city center of [Naha](e7102.html) with the Churaumi Aquarium. The one way trip takes a little over two hours and costs 1900-2000 yen on the Okinawa Airport Shuttle and the Yanbaru Express and 2770-2880 yen on bus 117. There are 1-2 [buses](e2015.html) per hour. In central Naha, the Airport Shuttle and Yanbaru Express are available from the Prefectural Office bus stop (県庁北口, Kenchō Kitaguchi) while bus 117 stops at the Naha Bus Terminal. Discounted round trip tickets are available through [Klook](https://www.klook.com/activity/59046-churaumi-aquarium-highway-bus-pass/?aid=12675).

### By bus from Nago

Most [buses](e2015.html) along the lines 65 and 66 connect Nago with the Kinen Kōen-mae (記念公園前) bus stop in front of the [Ocean Expo Park](e7111.html) (50 minutes, 920 yen one way, hourly). Note that a few buses run on a slightly different route that does not serve the aquarium.

### By car

By [car](e2024.html), take the [Okinawa Expressway](e2354.html) from Naha all the way to its northern end near Nago (1040 yen one way) and then follow regular roads across the Motobu Peninsula to the Ocean Expo Park. In total, the journey takes about two hours one way (more during rush hours).

[How to get to and around Okinawa Honto](e7116.html)