---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7026.html
title: How to get to and around Koka\: Access, Orientation and Transportation
description: How to get to and around Koka.
keywords: koka, koga, access, orientation, transportation, directions, get there, bus, train
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 466
char_count: 3308
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:14:18
---

### How to get to Koka

#### From Osaka/Kyoto

Take the JR Tokaido Line from [Osaka](e2157.html) or [Kyoto](e2158.html) to Kusatsu Station and then the JR Kusatsu Line to [Koka](e7025.html). The one way trip from Osaka takes about 1.5 hours and costs 1690 yen, while the trip from Kyoto takes about one hour and costs 990 yen. They are fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html). There is about one connection per hour.

#### From Tokyo

Take the [JR Tokaido Shinkansen](e2018_tokaido.html) from [Tokyo](e2164.html) to Maibara (135 minutes, one direct Hikari train per hour). From Maibara Station, take the JR Tokaido Line to Kusatsu Station (35 minutes, frequent trains) and then the JR Kusatsu Line to [Koka](e7025.html) (40 minutes, hourly trains). The entire trip takes about four hours, costs approximately 13,500 yen, and is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html).

#### From Iga Ueno

Take the Iga Railway from [Ueno-shi](e4350.html) Station to Iga-Ueno (7 minutes), transfer to the JR Kansai Line to Tsuge (15 minutes) and then to the JR Kusatsu Line to [Koka](e7025.html) (10 minutes). The entire one way trip typically takes 60-90 minutes depending on connections and costs around 700 yen. The section between Iga-Ueno and Koka is covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html).

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](/e/e2196.html).

[Koka](e7025.html)'s tourist attractions are scattered across the rural countryside, and [public transportation](e627.html) is not very convenient. The area is served by the JR Kusatsu Line, Omi Railway and Shigaraki Kogen Railway, which all meet at Kibukawa Station in the urban center of Koka.

The ninja attractions are each a 20-30 minute walk from their nearest stations along the JR Kusatsu Line south of Kibukawa. The [Miho Museum](e7027.html) is located in the mountains to the west. Although there is a road that connects the museum with the ninja attractions, there exists no direct public transportation between the two. Instead, the museum is accessed independently by [bus](e2015.html) from Ishiyama Station.

Needless to say, a [rental car](e2024.html) is more convenient for exploring [Koka](e7025.html), especially if planning to visit both the ninja attractions and the Miho Museum. Rental car outlets can be found around [Kyoto](e2158.html), Kusatsu, [Hikone](e7000.html) and Maibara Stations.