---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7131.html
title: Yanbaru Region (Yambaru Region)
description: Travel guide for the Yanbaru Region in northern Okinawa Honto.
keywords: yanbaru, yambaru, okinawa, japan, kuina, hedo misaki, daisekirinzan, okuma beach
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 2356
char_count: 16058
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:33:24
---

The forested northern coast as seen from Daisekirinzan Park.

The Yanbaru region (山原) makes up the northern part of the [Okinawa Main Island](e7101.html). Compared to the urbanized, southern part of the island, Yanbaru is significantly less developed and more rural. The region contains an abundance of subtropical forested hills and endemic wildlife. In 2016, the Yanbaru National Park was established here as the 33rd [national park](e2325.html) in Japan.

Several endangered species of wildlife exist in the region. Among them is the Yanbaru Kuina (also known as the "Okinawa Rail"), which is a small, nearly-flightless bird only found in the Yanbaru region. Efforts are being made to preserve the species, and several kuina-related attractions have been established in the area.

A kuina bird seen at the Okinawa Rail Ecology Center

Most tourist attractions in the Yanbaru region are nature-related and include walking trails through the forest, observation points and small museums devoted to the local fauna and flora. Below is a list of some of the places of interest:

* 

  [Hedo Misaki (Cape Hedo)](e7113.html)

  Hours: Always open  
  Admission: free  
  Closed: No closing days

  [Hedo Misaki](e7113.html) is the northernmost point of [Okinawa Honto](e7101.html). At the cape there is a network of walking trails leading to several statues and scenic views of the coast. On a clear day it is possible to see Yoronjima Island located 23 kilometers to the northwest which is part of neighboring [Kagoshima Prefecture](/list/e1246.html).
* 

  [Hiji Waterfall](e7120.html)

  Hours: Entry from 9:00 to 17:30 (until 17:00 from Nov to Mar)  
  Admission: 500 yen  
  Closed: during extreme weather

  [Hiji Waterfall](e7120.html) is an impressive, 26 meter tall waterfall located at the end of a 1.5 kilometer hike through the forest which takes about 40 minutes one way. The area has a tranquil atmosphere and is probably the best trail for experiencing the undisturbed nature of the Yanbaru forests. A parking lot and campground are located at the trailhead.
* 

  Asmui (Daisekirinzan Park)

  Hours: 9:30 to 17:30 (entry until 16:00)   
  Admission: 2500 yen  
  Closed: No closing days

  Located five minutes by car from [Hedo Misaki](#hedo), Daisekirinzan Park is a nature reserve with [hiking](e2427.html) trails winding through a rocky, eroded limestone terrain. There are three hiking courses to experience, each with its own theme. All three trails start from the same building which is reached by shuttle bus from the parking lot and stone museum.
* 

  Gesashi Bay Mangrove Forest

  Hours: Always open   
  Admission: free  
  Closed: No closing days

  The Gesashi Bay Mangrove Forest is the largest mangrove forest on the [Okinawa Main Island](e7101.html). There is an observation deck and 400 meter long boardwalks through the vegetation. Canoe tours are offered by several companies.
* 

  Yanbaru Wildlife Conservation Center

  Temporarily closed for renovations until 2026

  The Yanbaru Wildlife Conservation Center, not far from the trailhead to [Hiji Waterfall](#hiji), teaches visitors about local wildlife around the region. Built in 2009, the facility has ample information and multiple displays focusing on nature protection and the Yanbaru kuina bird.
* 

  Okinawa Rail Ecology Center

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00  
  Admission: 700 yen  
  Closed: Wednesdays

  The Okinawa Rail Ecology Center is a small facility dedicated to educating visitors about the kuina bird and focused on its preservation. It features a large cage in which a kuina bird is living and can be observed if you are able to find the bird. The center is located on the east side of the Yanbaru Region and shares a parking lot with a park golf course.
* 

  [Okuma Beach](e7119.html#okumabeach)

  Hours: 9:00 to 18:00 (until 17:00 November to February)  
  Admission for daytime visitors: 1500 yen

  Okuma Beach is an attractive [beach](e7119.html) located within the Okuma Private Beach & Resort, one of only a few resorts in the far north of the island. The beach stretches over a kilometer along the coast, and many facilities and water activities are available to staying guests and daytime visitors. The admission price includes parking and one rental towel.

Public transportation in the Yanbaru Region is limited to infrequent [local buses](e2015.html) along the western coast that do not serve all destinations, while buses along the more remote eastern coast are even more elusive. For this reason traveling by [rental car](e2024.html) is recommended.

[How to get to and around Okinawa Honto](e7116.html)