---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7990.html
title: Sakata Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Sakata City in Yamagata Prefecture.
keywords: sakata, travel, guide, city, tourist, tourism, tourists, sightseeing, visitor, visit, information
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 312
char_count: 2471
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:49:50
---

Sakata (酒田) is a medium-sized city in [Yamagata Prefecture](/list/e1205.html) on the Sea of Japan coast, around an hour north of the [Dewa Sanzan](e7900.html) region. Sakata is located in the fertile Shonai Plain, which is known for its high-quality [rice](e2043.html). The city grew as an important stop along the coastal shipping route that connected [Hokkaido](/list/e1101.html) with [Osaka](e2157.html) via ports along the Sea of Japan and [Seto Inland Sea](e5445.html) during the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868).

A local merchant family, the Honma, came to dominate trade in the city and accrued a vast fortune that made them wealthier than some of the country's feudal lords. As a result, the family developed close ties with the local lords and had a number of lavish buildings built. Some of these buildings still stand today along with museums and other attractions.

* [](/e/e7996.html)

  1

  Museum

  [Honma Museum of Art•](/e/e7996.html)

  Art museum with a beautiful Japanese garden.

  9
* [](/e/e7994.html)

  2

  Industry/Commerce

  [Sankyo Warehouses](/e/e7994.html)

  Photogenic, historic rice warehouses.

  17
* [](/e/e7993.html)

  3

  Historic Site

  [Honma Residence](/e/e7993.html)

  The former residence of the leading local merchants.

  11
* [](/e/e7995.html)

  4

  Zoo/Wildlife

  [Kamo Aquarium](/e/e7995.html)

  Aquarium famous for its collection of jellyfish.

  7
* [](/e/e7992.html)

  5

  Museum

  [Ken Domon Museum](/e/e7992.html)

  Museum dedicated to the acclaimed local photographer.

  6

Side Trips from Sakata

* [](/e/e7900.html)

  1

  [Dewa Sanzan••](/e/e7900.html)

  Three sacred mountains with shrines.

  4.4

  

  158

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Sakata](e7990.html)

[Getting to and around Sakata](e7991.html)
[See access info](e7991.html)