---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7551.html
title: Tokyo to Alpine Route\: How to get to and around Alpine Route
description: How to get to and around the Tateyama Kurobe Alpine Route.
keywords: tateyama, kurobe, alpine, route, access, orientation, transportation, fares, tickets, reservations, practicalities
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 762
char_count: 5342
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:21:55
---

From/To:

TokyoOsakaKyotoNagoya

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

Take the [JR Hokuriku Shinkansen](e2018_nagano.html) from [Tokyo](e2164.html) to [Toyama](e7500.html). The one way ride takes about 130 to 160 minutes, costs around 13,000 yen and is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html). The [JR East Nagano Niigata Area Pass](e2361_nagano_niigata.html) is not valid all the way to Toyama, but only as far as Joetsu-Myoko Station.

Take the [JR Hokuriku Shinkansen](e2018_nagano.html) from Tokyo to [Nagano](e6000.html) (100 minutes, around 8500 yen one way) and then a bus directly to Ogizawa along the [Alpine Route](e7550.html) (105 minutes, 4300 yen one way). The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and [JR East Nagano Niigata Area Pass](e2361_nagano_niigata.html) cover the shinkansen, but not the bus.

Covered by: [Japan Rail Pass](/e/e2361.html)

Take the JR Azusa limited express from [Tokyo](e2164.html)'s Shinjuku Station to [Matsumoto](e6050.html) (about 2.5 hours) and transfer to the JR Oito Line to Shinano-Omachi Station (1 hour). The one way journey costs 7390 yen and is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) and [JR East Nagano Niigata Area Pass](e2361_nagano_niigata.html). A small number of Azusa limited express trains run all the way to Shinano-Omachi.

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

#### Tickets

Tickets can be bought at stations along the [Alpine Route](e7550.html) between [Toyama](e7500.html) and Ogizawa, but not at Shinano-Omachi Station. Tickets covering the entire route allow for stop-overs along the route but not for backtracking. They are valid for up to five days. It is also possible to purchase tickets for smaller sections of the route or discounted round trip tickets. The cost for a ticket from Toyama to Ogizawa is 12,360 yen one way or 22,520 yen for a round trip.

Be aware that **tickets for specific departure times** need to purchased for the cablecar from Tateyama Station to Bijodaira at the route's western gateway and for the electric bus from Ogizawa Station to Kurobe Dam at the route's eastern gateway. The [official bilingual website](https://tateyama-kurobe-webservice.jp/AlpenTour/html/VW001W0010.html) allows travelers to purchase Web Tickets and make these advance reservations. Reservations are not possible for other sections, where passengers board on a first-come first-serve basis. On busy days numbered tickets may be handed out to organize the order of boarding.

Note that the Tateyama Kurobe Alpine Route can gets very busy during [holidays](e2062.html) such as the [Golden Week](e2282.html), summer holidays and weekends during the [autumn leaf](e2014.html) season, resulting in possible waiting times or even the inability to board without advance reservations.

A sign shows departure times associated with numbered tickets, and a monitor displays the current number.

#### Accommodation

While the [Alpine Route](e7550.html) can be covered in a day trip from cities such as [Tokyo](e2164.html), [Kyoto](e2158.html), [Osaka](e2157.html) and [Nagoya](e2155.html), staying over along the route itself or at either end of the route is recommended for a less hectic pace. There are several [accommodation](e2025.html) options along the Alpine Route, especially around [Murodo](e7553.html) and the [Midagahara Wetlands](e7555.html). Among them are hotels and large mountain lodges, some of which feature [hot spring](e2292.html) baths.

At the western end of the route, many hotels can be found in [Toyama City](e7500.html), while at the eastern end Omachi Town offers hotels and hot spring lodgings. Not far away is the city of [Matsumoto](e6050.html), which is a major tourist destination in itself.

#### Luggage

A same-day baggage forwarding service is offered along the Alpine Route between Dentetsu Toyama Station and JR Shinano-Omachi Station for 4000 yen per piece from April 15 until November 3 (drop-off before 10:00 in Toyama and 10:30 in Shinano-Omachi). An alternative is using a regular [takuhaibin delivery service](e2278.html), although delivery will generally be on the next day.

#### Parking

The section between Tateyama Station and Ogizawa is closed to private vehicles. Visitors arriving by car should park their cars at either Ogizawa (limited free parking or 1000 yen per 12 or 24 hours, depending on the parking lot) or Tateyama Station (free parking). For car users, who do not wish to backtrack, several companies provide car forwarding services between Ogizawa and Tateyama Station, charging around 25,000 to 30,000 yen.