---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7106.html
title: Okinawa World
description: Visitor guide for Okinawa World, a theme park about Okinawa culture, and also featuring the Gyokusendo Cave.
keywords: okinawa, world, gyokusendo, cave, ryukyu
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 1954
char_count: 13307
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:33:50
---

The entrance to Okinawa World

Okinawa World (おきなわワールド) is a touristy theme park about [Okinawan](/list/e1247.html) culture. The park's main attractions are a massive natural cave, a craft village and a snake museum.

With a total length of five kilometers, **Gyokusendo Cave** is the longest of the many caves in the south of [Okinawa Island](e7101.html) and the second longest cave in the entire country. 850 meters of the cave are open to the public and feature spectacular stalactites and stalagmites. The inside of the cave is well maintained and the walking paths are comfortable and well lit.

The Gyokusendo Cave

The **Kingdom Village** is a nice replica of a traditional Ryukyu village with workshops introducing the various traditional Okinawan crafts, such as weaving, dyeing, paper making, [pottery](e2329.html) and the more recently introduced glass blowing. Hands-on experiences are offered at many of the workshops. Some require advance reservations.

The **Habu Park**, named after the infamous, poisonous, local Habu snake, consists of a snake museum, a small, run down zoological garden with some snakes on display and a snake show. Throughout the park, visitors have ample of opportunities to purchase local products at numerous souvenir shops. Of course, there is also a restaurant specialized in [Okinawa cuisine](e7128.html).

A shop in the Kingdom Village

Okinawa World is near the southern tip of [Okinawa Honto](e7101.html), about ten kilometers south of [Naha](e7102.html). Take [bus](e2015.html) number 83 from Naha Bus Terminal all the way to its terminal stop, Gyokusendō Chūshajō (玉泉洞駐車場), which is located in front of Okinawa World (50 minutes, 670 yen, every 1-2 hours). By [car](e2024.html), it takes about 40 minutes from central [Naha](e7102.html).

[How to get to and around Okinawa Honto](e7116.html)