---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7495.html
title: Manza Onsen Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Manza Onsen, the hot spring resort town with waters of the highest sulphuric content in Japan.
keywords: manza, onsen, resort, ski, hot, spring, bath, travel, tourist, tourism, sightseeing, guide, visit, visitor, gunma, japan
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 1009
char_count: 6810
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:49:06
---

Manza Onsen (万座温泉) is a [hot spring](e2292.html) resort town located 1800 meters above sea level, high up on the slopes of [Mount Shirane](e7406.html) at the northwestern edge of [Gunma Prefecture](/list/e1209.html). Its highly acidic waters are obtained from Mount Shirane and are among the most sulfuric in all of Japan. They are known to provide various health benefits through improving metabolism and blood circulation.

Manza Onsen has several [hotels](e2025.html) and [ryokan](e2029.html) with outstanding hot spring baths. In particular, the open air baths are a treat with their excellent waters and tranquil setting. Guaranteed snow in the winter makes the town one of the best places near [Tokyo](e2164.html) to enjoy an outdoor bath in the snow. The following is a list of recommended ryokan and hotels that open their baths not only to staying guests but also to daytime visitors:

* 

  Nisshinkan••

  Daytime hours: 10:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:00)  
  Daytime admission: 1000 yen  
  Overnight stay: from 12,000 yen per person including 2 meals

  The indoor and outdoor bath areas of Nisshinkan are located in separate buildings a short walk away from each other. The serene outdoor bath offers nice mountain scenery. The indoor bath area has a beautiful wooden interior equipped with several pools and fan shaped windows. All facilities are gender separated.
* 

  Manza Prince Hotel••

  Daytime hours: 11:00 to 16:00 (entry until 15:00)  
  Daytime admission: 1300 yen  
  Overnight stay: from 8,000 yen per person including 2 meals

  The outdoor baths at Manza Prince Hotel offer great, unobstructed views of the surrounding mountain landscape. There are two open air baths for each gender and one mixed gender bath in addition to gender separated indoor bath areas.
* 

  Manza Kogen Hotel••

  Daytime hours: 11:00 to 18:00 (entry until 17:00)  
  Daytime admission: 1500 yen  
  Overnight stay: from 8,000 yen per person including 2 meals

  Manza Kogen Hotel offers a large outdoor bath facility with seven mixed gender pools and one female-only pool. The outdoor bath area is called Sekitei Rotenburo ("Rock Garden Open Air Bath") with reference to its baths made of rocks and having a rocky decor. The hotel also has indoor bathing facilities.
* 

  Manzatei•

  Daytime hours: 11:30 to 17:00 (until 14:00 on weekends and [holidays](e2062.html))  
  Daytime admission: 1300 yen  
  Overnight stay: from 11,000 yen per person including 2 meals

  The [baths](e2292.html) at the Manzatei have an elegant wooden interior design. There is one indoor and one outdoor bath for each gender.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

Above the town, there is a small network of pleasant walking trails around the valley which contains a lot of the hot spring sources. It is also the site of Manza's Yubatake ("hot water field"), a pool in which some of the thermal waters accumulate; however, it is too hot for bathing. One of the trails also leads to an observation point with views over the town. Due to the snow, the walking trails are unaccessible during the winter.

Instead, Manza Onsen offers [skiing and snowboarding](e2262.html) from around mid December to late March or early April. The town's small [resort](e2262.html) has four lifts and is operated by the Manza Prince Hotel that stands right next to the ski slope and also offers rental equipment and package plans that combine accommodation with ski passes.

Yubatake in summer

### How to get to Manza Onsen

#### By train and bus via Karuizawa

Take the [Hokuriku Shinkansen](e2018_nagano.html) from [Tokyo](e2164.html) to [Karuizawa](e6030.html) (65 minutes, around 5500 yen) and then a Seibu bus from Karuizawa Station to Manza Onsen (110 minutes, 2950 yen one way). Note that there are only 2-3 buses per day and that JR passes are not valid on the buses between Karuizawa and Manza Onsen.

#### By train and bus via Manza Kazawaguchi

The closest railway station to Manza Onsen is JR Manza Kazawaguchi Station from where there are infrequent [buses](e2015.html) to Manza Onsen (45 minutes, 1370 yen one way). In fact, there is really only just one convenient connection per day.

The fastest way to get from [Tokyo](e2164.html) to Manza Kazawaguchi Station is by [shinkansen](e2018.html) and [local train](e2016.html) via Takasaki (about 2.5 hours, 6000 yen one way), but the trip can also be done entirely by local trains (about four hours, 3410 yen one way, one transfer at Takasaki). The [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), [JR Tokyo Wide Pass](e2361_06.html), [JR East Nagano Niigata Area Pass](e2361_nagano_niigata.html), [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html) and [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html) are valid on the [trains](e2019.html), but not on the buses.

#### By bus from Kusatsu

Convenient public transportation between [Kusatsu Onsen](e7400.html) and Manza Onsen is currently non-existing. There used to be infrequent buses via [Mount Shirane](e7406.html), but because the mountain is still closed to tourists, the buses are mostly out of service. There is currently just a single round trip per day, which operates only on weekends and [public holidays](e2062.html) (870 yen one way).

#### By hotel bus for staying guests

Some of Manza's hotels offer free shuttle bus services from Karuizawa Station or packaged transport and accommodation plans for tourists departing from [Tokyo](e2164.html).

#### By car

Access to Manza Onsen from the south leads via a toll road that costs 1070 yen one way per car (overnight guests can get a waiver for the return journey from their hotels). Access from the north is not possible during winter due to road closures around [Mount Shirane](e7406.html) from around early November to mid April.

### How to get around Manza Onsen

Manza Onsen is a compact, small town. Most attractions and [hotels](e2025.html) in the town center are accessible on foot, although the roads are steep and tend to be slippery in winter. The summit of [Mount Shirane](e7406.html) is located about a 15 minute bus or car ride north, above the town.