---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7477.html
title: Ikaho Hotspring Baths
description: Introduction to Ikaho Onsen's outdoor and indoor baths.
keywords: ikaho, onsen, baths, hot, water, rotemburo
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 490
char_count: 3408
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:49:37
---

Water fountain offering iron enriched onsen water on the left

[Ikaho](e7475.html) is one of [Gunma Prefecture](/list/e1209.html)'s most renowned [onsen](e2292.html). While not as famous as nearby [Kusatsu](e7400.html), Ikaho's baths are nevertheless a unique experience due to the unusually high iron content of their hot spring water, which gives the water a reddish brown color and metallic taste. Bathing in or drinking the onsen water is said to be effective in treating certain disorders and ailments such as fatigue and poor circulation.

The source of the hot spring is found about 500 meters past the top of the [stone steps](e7478.html). It can be viewed through a clear casing near the public outdoor bath (Ikaho Rotemburo). Ikaho has two [public hot spring bath houses](e2074.html), which are open to day trip visitors. In addition, many of the local [ryokan](e2029.html) along the steps open up their baths to non-staying guests during the day for a small fee (typically between 500 to 1500 yen).

* 

  Ikaho Rotemburo

  Beyond the top of the stone steps past Kajika Bridge  
  Hours: 9:00 to 18:00 (from 10:00 from October to March)  
  Closed: 1st and 3rd Thursdays of each month (except [national holidays](e2062.html))  
  Admission: 600 yen

  The Ikaho Rotemburo is a large public outdoor bath (rotemburo) just a few steps from one of the main [hot spring](e2292.html) sources in town. The rotemburo is gender segregated, and each side has both hot and warm baths, although neither is especially hot.
* 

  Ishidan no Yu

  Lower portion of the stone steps  
  Hours: 10:00 to 20:00 (entry until 19:30)  
  Closed: 2nd and 4th Tuesdays of each month (or the following day if Tuesday is a [national holiday](e2062.html))  
  Admission: 800 yen

  This [public bath](e2074.html) is located near the bottom of the steps, and features modest sized, gender segregated indoor baths filled with Ikaho's signature rusty brown hot spring water. The walkway leading up to the entrance is paved with stones that were salvaged from renovation work done to the [stone steps](e7478.html) nearby.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

[How to get to and around Ikaho Onsen](e7476.html)