---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7118.html
title: How to get around Naha\: Access, Transportation and Orientation
description: How to get to and around Naha.
keywords: naha, orientation, transportation, access, directions, getting there
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 2060
char_count: 13981
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:33:31
---

### How to get to Naha

Please refer to our [Okinawa Main Island access page](e7116.html) for access details.

### How to get around Naha

The **Okinawa Monorail**, popularly known as Yui Rail, provides tourists with access to most of [Naha](e7102.html)'s main attractions. The single monorail line runs from Naha Airport through the city center, meeting the [Kokusaidori](e7114.html) twice at Asahibashi Station and Makishi Station. Asahibashi Station is also close to the Naha Bus Terminal. It then continues to Shuri Station, which is a 15-20 minute walk from [Shuri Castle](e7103.html), and beyond. [Suica and nine other IC cards](e2359_003.html), as well as the local OKICA card can be used to ride the Okinawa Monorail.

A 1-day pass (800 yen) and 2-day pass (1400 yen) provide unlimited use on the Okinawa Monorail for a 24 or 48 hour period respectively. The passes include discounts on admission fees to many attractions, including [Shuri Castle](e7103.html), the [Tamaudun Mausoleum](e7129.html), [Shikinaen Garden](e7104.html), the [Prefectural Museum](e7126.html) and the [Former Navy Underground Headquarters](e7105.html).

Besides the monorail line, Naha is served by a dense **bus network** which can be a little bit daunting to use by foreign tourists. The center of the [bus](e2015.html) network is Naha Bus Terminal next to Asahibashi Station on the Okinawa Monorail at the western end of [Kokusaidori Street](e7114.html). There is a flat fare of 240 or 260 yen per ride in central Naha depending on the bus company. Outside of central Naha, the fare is based on the distance traveled and paid when exiting the bus.

A **rental car** is convenient but not necessary if visiting only [Naha](e7102.html), as public transportation is relatively convenient. However, when also venturing outside the city, a [rental car](e2024.html) is the recommended means of transportation as buses tend to be slow and difficult to use. Note that traffic can be very heavy in central Naha, especially during the morning and evening rush hours on weekdays. Drivers should also be aware of scooters, which often pass standing or slowly moving cars at high speeds.