---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7075.html
title: Omi Hachiman Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Omi Hachiman, a picturesque old merchant town in Shiga Prefecture near the shores of Lake Biwa.
keywords: omi, hachiman, omihachiman, town, merchant, town, shiga, tourist, information, guide, travel, sightseeing, visitor, guide
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 1305
char_count: 8844
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:46:59
---

Omi Hachiman (近江八幡, Ōmihachiman) is a city in [Shiga Prefecture](/list/e1224.html) that is known for its nicely preserved old town and canal where visitors can enjoy traditional boat cruises through the [historic townscape](e2422.html). Omi Hachiman rose to prominence during the [feudal era](e2128.html) as the base of the local merchants, the Omi merchants, whose trade activities were famed across the country and provided them with great wealth.

The town was originally developed in the late 1500s when a nephew of [Toyotomi Hideyoshi](e2123.html) built a [castle](e2296.html) there. The castle was demolished only a decade later after Hideyoshi ordered his nephew to commit ritual suicide for allegedly plotting a coup; however, the town prospered as a business hub in part due to its location along two of the most important trade routes of the era: the Nakasendo Highway which connected [Kyoto](e2158.html) with [Tokyo](e2164.html) (then Edo) and the shipping route that connected the Sea of Japan via Lake Biwa with Kyoto.

The well-preserved Shinmachi merchant street

The Omi merchants accumulated vast fortunes during the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868) and were able to expand their operations to sell goods across the land. Today the town's mercantile history is reflected around the old town, where there are numerous buildings that in centuries past served as the merchants' homes and shops.

The majority of Omi Hachiman's attractions are located over three adjacent areas, which can roughly be defined as the following:

### Canal area

Excavated to serve as both a moat to protect the castle and as a transport route to connect the town to Lake Biwa, the canal is Omi Hachiman's most unique and picturesque area.

* 

  Hachiman-bori Canal Boat Cruises

  Hours: 10:00 to 16:00  
  Admission: 1500 yen (engine-powered), 1300 yen (man-powered)  
  The man-powered boats do not operate on Wednesdays, [Obon](e2286.html), [New Year](e2276.html) and Monday to Thursday in January and February

  Two companies offer boat cruises along the canal. One uses man-powered boats that glide through the historical district at a slow pace, while the other uses engine-powered boats that explore not only the historical section, but also a more modern-looking part of the canal. Cruises last 35 minutes, and shoes must be removed on the boats.
* 

  Kawara Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Mondays (or next day if Monday is a [public holiday](e2062.html)), the day after a public holiday, [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission: 300 yen  
  Typical visit duration: 30 minutes

  This museum is dedicated to Japanese roof tiles with a focus on their history and significance. There is also an exhibition of different roof tiles from all over Japan. The museum consists of multiple buildings that stand on the former site of a roof tile factory.
* 

  Hakuunkan

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: December 29 to January 3  
  Admission: Free

  Originally built as a school in the early [Meiji Period](e2130.html), this European-style building serves as a tourist information center today and also features a small exhibition space.

### Town area

Omi Hachiman's other highlight is the Shinmachi Street which is lined by several well preserved, historical buildings, some of which are open to the public.

* 

  Nishikawa Residence

  Hours: 9:00 to 16:30 (entry until 16:00)  
  Closed: Mon (or next day if Mon is a [holiday](e2062.html)), day after a holiday, [New Year](e2276.html)  
  Admission: 300 yen (500 yen with municipal museum)  
  Typical visit duration: 20-30 minutes

  The Nishikawa family were among the most prominent Omi merchants during the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868). Their former residence is open for the public to explore and serves as a well preserved example of the dwelling of a wealthy Omi merchant family, boasting opulent traditional [Japanese rooms](e2007.html) and a nice [garden](e2099.html).
* 

  Municipal Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 16:30 (entry until 16:00)  
  Closed: same as Nishikawa Residence (see above)  
  Admission: 300 yen (500 yen with Nishikawa Residence)  
  Typical visit duration: 20-30 minutes

  This museum consists of two parts. The first part is a conventional museum that displays various old artifacts including earthenware and old plans of the town. The second part is an old residence that can be explored by visitors and exhibits old everyday utensils.
* 

  NO-MA

  Hours: 11:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: Mon (Tue if Mon is a [holiday](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html) holidays, between exhibitions  
  Admission: varies depending on exhibition, typically 200-500 yen

  This art gallery is housed in an old residence a few hundred meters away from the Shinmachi Street and showcases a range of art including art pieces created by those with disabilities. The art contributes to the complex's bright, pleasant atmosphere, and at the back stands a much more rustic annex building.
* 

  Vories-related sites

  Former post office: 10:00 to 17:00, closed on weekdays, admission free  
  Former residence: Advance reservation required, closed Mon-Wed

  William Merrel Vories was an American missionary, teacher and [architect](e2111.html) who came to Japan in 1905. While living in Omi Hachiman, he designed various buildings known for their Western-style aesthetic. Some of them, including the old post office (shown on the picture) and his former residence, are open to the public.

### Mount Hachiman

Easily accessed via a ropeway, the summit of Mount Hachiman provides visitors with pleasant views of the town and Lake Biwa. Previously the site of Hachiman Castle, the summit now offers a small network of walking trails with viewpoints, a temple and some castle ruins.

* 

  Hachimanyama Ropeway

  Departures every 15 minutes from 9:00 to 17:00 (last departures at 16:30)  
  Fare: 540 yen (one way), 950 yen (round trip)

  Departing from next to Himure Hachimangu Shrine, the ropeway provides passengers with nice views of Omi Hachiman and surroundings during the short journey up and down the mountain.
* 

  Walking trails

  At the top of Mount Hachiman there is a network of trails. A circular walk around the summit takes around 20 minutes and passes several viewpoints with views in all directions, including Lake Biwa.
* 

  Zuiryuji Temple

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: 500 yen

  At the summit of the mountain, on the former site of the castle's main citadel, stands the atmospheric Zuiryuji Temple which was moved here from [Kyoto](e2158.html) in 1961. The [temple](e2058.html) was built to mourn the death of [Hideyoshi](e2123.html)'s nephew Hidetsugu who served as the lord of the former Hachiman Castle. The temple's outer grounds can be entered for free, but an admission fee is required to see the interior
* 

  Himure Hachimangu Shrine

  Hours: Always open  
  Closed: No closing days  
  Admission: Free

  Himure Hachimangu Shrine is an atmospheric [shrine](e2059.html) standing among tall trees at the foot of Mount Hachiman, near the lower ropeway station. With its long history, the shrine enjoyed such a high status that the town of Omi Hachiman was even named after it.

### How to get to Omi Hachiman

Omi Hachiman Station is located along the JR Tokaido Main Line (also referred to as JR Biwako Line) between [Kyoto](e2158.html) and Maibara.

#### From Kyoto/Osaka

JR [special rapid](e2016.html) trains run twice hourly between [Osaka](e2157.html), [Kyoto](e2158.html) and Omi Hachiman Station. The one way journey from Osaka takes 65 minutes and costs 1520 yen, while from Kyoto it takes 35 minutes and costs 680 yen.

#### From Tokyo

From [Tokyo](e2164.html) (Tokyo or Shinagawa stations), take a [Hikari](e2018_tokaido.html) train on the [JR Tokaido Shinkansen](e2018_tokaido.html) to Maibara Station (130 minutes, one direct Hikari per hour) and then transfer to the JR Biwako Line to Omi Hachiman Station (20-25 minutes, frequent departures). The journey takes about three hours, costs around 12,500 yen one way and is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html).

### How to get around Omi Hachiman

Most of Omi Hachiman's attractions are located in the old town area which is about two kilometers from the station. From Omi Hachiman Station, there are 2-4 [buses](e2015.html) per hour that run to the old town (5-10 minutes, 220 yen one way) where they stop at multiple bus stops, including Shinmachi (新町) and Osugicho (大杉町). Alternatively, a [taxi](e2021.html) ride between the station and the old town takes under ten minutes and costs around 1000 yen one way. The old town can be explored comfortably on foot.