---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7103.html
title: Shuri Castle (Shurijo)
description: Visitor guide for Shuri Castle, a reconstruction of the palace of the former Ryukyu kings.
keywords: shuri, shurijo, castle, ryukyu, okinawa, naha
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 2265
char_count: 15218
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:50:29
---

The Seiden (Main Hall), Nanden Hall (South Hall) and Una Plaza before they were destroyed by fire

Important Notice:

The main buildings of Shuri Castle were destroyed by fire in the night of October 31, 2019. Reconstruction works have started with the aim to rebuild the castle's main hall by autumn 2026. In the meantime, tourists are encouraged to visit the castle and observe the reconstruction works.

The castle in January 2020

A city district of [Naha](e7102.html) today, Shuri is the name of the former capital of the Ryukyu Kingdom. Shuri Castle (首里城, Shurijō) served as the administrative center and residence of the Ryukyu kings for several centuries until [Okinawa](/list/e1247.html) became a Japanese prefecture in 1879. The castle is included as one of the [World Heritage](e2251.html)-designated [Castles of the Ryukyu Kingdom](e7125.html) sites.

Shuri Castle was originally built in the late 1300s and played an integral role in the political unification of the island. Wars and fires destroyed the castle multiple times over the centuries, most recently in the [Battle of Okinawa](e7103.html) in 1945 and in a fire in 2019. It is currently being recontructed with the aim to restore the main hall in 2026. The approach to the castle's central buildings leads through multiple gates, including the well known Shureimon Gate. The castle's hilltop location allows for nice views over [Naha](e7102.html) along the way.

Shureimon Gate

On the top of the hill stands the castle's main hall, the **Seiden** (currently being reconstructed). The former venue of major affairs of state and ceremonies, the Seiden is the most lavishly decorated building and a landmark of [Okinawa](/list/e1247.html). Its architectural design and vermilion color differ significantly with those of [castles](e2296.html) on mainland Japan.

**Una Plaza** extends in front of the Seiden and was used for ceremonies in the past. It is encircled on the other three sides by the **Hokuden** (North Hall, destroyed in the fire), **Nanden** (South Hall, destroyed in the fire) and the Hoshinmon (Hoshin Gate, survived the fire). The Hokuden and Nanden served as administrative buildings and venues to welcome envoys from China and mainland Japan respectively.

Outer gates of Shuri Castle and Naha Port visible in the distance

Before the fire, it was possible to explore the interiors of the castle buildings in a circular route, beginning with the Nanden. Informative exhibits were on display outlining the history of the Ryukyu Kingdom as well as the interaction with the Japanese mainland and China. Historical artifacts, both made on the island and received during foreign trade, were also on display.

While the interiors of the Hokuden and Nanden were constructed like modern museums, the interior of the Seiden had been rebuilt in its original style. Visitors were able to get a feel of the splendor that surrounded the Ryukyu kings. A replica of the king's throne and crown were among the exhibits.

The throne of the Ryukyu king inside the Seiden before its destruction in the fire

### By public transportation

Shuri Castle can be reached in a 15-20 minute walk or a five minute [bus](e2015.html) ride (240 yen) from Shuri Station on the Okinawa Monorail. Take bus number 7 or 8 and get off at Shurijō-mae (首里城前). Alternatively, take bus number 14 directly from central Naha ([Kokusaidori](e7114.html)) to Shuri Castle. The one way trip takes about 15-20 minutes and costs 240 yen. Get off at Shurijō Kōen Iriguchi (首里城公園入口).

### By car

By [car](e2024.html), Shuri Castle can be reached in ten minutes from central Naha or 20 minutes from Naha Airport. Note, however, that the trip can take considerably longer during rush hour.

[How to get to and around Naha](e7118.html)