---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7680.html
title: Ogi Town
description: Visitor guide for Ogi Town on Sado Island.
keywords: ogi, town, sado, earth, celebration, kodo, taiko, drum, drums, festival
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 417
char_count: 2842
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:29:46
---

Ogi Port during the Earth Celebration

Ogi Town (小木), located on Sado Island's southern coast, is a small port town known for **taraibune**, wooden tub-shaped boats, that were originally used for collecting seaweed, shellfish and other things from the waters around Ogi. Short taraibune boat rides are available at Ogi Port and nearby Yajima and Kyojima.

This sleepy little town really comes alive for three days in late August when it hosts the [Earth Celebration](e7677.html), a festival celebrating global culture and international music put on by the world renowned Kodo Taiko group. People come from all over the world to the festival, and Ogi's harbor area gets transformed into a little tent city.

Around Ogi are a few places of interest including Sobama Beach and Campground to the north and **Shukunegi**, a small village with canal lined lanes to the west. Shukunegi used to be a shipbuilding town, and a number of its houses are built out of lumber salvaged from boat hulls. The village has a boat exhibition hall and a few preserved residences. It is located about four kilometers west of Ogi's town center.

Shukunegi Village

### By car

From Ryotsu Port, Ogi Town can be reached in about one hour by [car](e2024.html).

### By bus

Take a [bus](e2015.html) along the Main Line from Ryotsu to Sawata (40 minutes, 660 yen, 1-2 buses per hour) and transfer to the Ogi Line for Ogi (60 minutes, 860 yen, every 1-2 hours). Alternatively, take the Minami Line (55 minutes, 720 yen, every 1-2 hours) and Ogi Line (50 minutes, 860 yen) via the Mino-Shinmachi bus stop.

### By ferry

It is possible to access Ogi directly via the [car ferry](e2355.html) from Naoetsu.

[How to get to and around Sado Island](e7676.html)