---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7482.html
title: Ikaho Green Bokujo
description: Visitor guide for the Green Bokujo farm near Ikaho Onsen.
keywords: ikaho, farm, park, green, bokujo
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 387
char_count: 2703
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:29:06
---

Ikaho Green Bokujo (伊香保グリーン牧場, Ikaho Gurīn Bokujō) is a farm-themed [amusement park](e2067.html) near [Ikaho Onsen](e7475.html) with a variety of attractions and workshops designed for kids and families to have a farm experience. Some of the attractions include pony rides, horse drawn coaches, a petting zoo with rabbits, sheep and other farm animals, and one of the country's largest sheep dog shows with a live demonstration of sheep dogs guiding a large herd of sheep.

Green Bokujo also has several hands on activities where you can try your hand at farm work such as feeding and milking cows or fresh butter making. Additionally there are amusements such as a miniature golf course and an archery range. The farm also has BBQ pits and a lot of grassy fields that are a good place to have a picnic, as well as several restaurants and gift shops that sell food and souvenir products that were produced at the farm.

Adjacent to the farm stands the [Hara Museum ARC](e7483.html), a museum of [contemporary art](e2115.html).

Sheep dog show

Buses between Shibukawa Station and [Ikaho Onsen](e7475.html) stop at Green Bokujo along the way. Get off at the Green Bokujo-mae bus stop (グリーン牧場前) which is about 10 minutes, 300 yen from the Ikaho Bus Terminal, and 15 minutes, 560 yen from Shibukawa. Buses depart every 20-30 minutes.

[How to get to and around Ikaho Onsen](e7476.html)