---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7927.html
title: Zao Onsen Ski Resort
description: Visitor guide for the Zao Onsen Ski Resort in Yamagata Prefecture
keywords: zao, onsen, ski, resort, snowboard, snow, area
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 404
char_count: 2779
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:04:32
---

[Zao Onsen](e7928.html) is a well known [hot spring](e2292.html) and [ski](e2262.html) resort in the mountains of [Yamagata Prefecture](/list/e1205.html). It is one of only a few places in Japan where juhyo ("ice trees") can be seen. Also known as "snow monsters", the trees take on curious shapes due to the heavy snowfall and freezing winds.

The snow monsters form around the peak of the Zao Ski Resort and are usually most spectacular around mid February. Access to the monsters is provided by a ropeway and a gondola for both skiers and non-skiers. On [selected evenings](#section_admission), the monsters around the summit are lit up to be enjoyed outside or from a warm seat in the cafe. Night skiing, however, is offered only in the lower elevations of the resort.

Snow Monsters

Zao's ski resort is one of Japan's oldest and offers over two dozen lifts, gondolas and ropeways and a variety of different courses suitable for skiers and snowboarders of all abilities, especially beginners and intermediates. The longest course starts in the territory of the snow monsters at the summit of the mountain and is about ten kilometers long. The ski season usually starts in early December and ends around early May, depending on snow conditions.

Zao Onsen Ski Resort

Zao Onsen Ski Resort features long runs with good snow, many slopes for all skill levels, and the famous snow monsters. Lift ticket prices are lower in the shoulder seasons.

Season\*

**Mid December to early May**  
(December 13, 2025 to May 6, 2026)

Lifts

28 lifts

Tickets

Full day
7500 yen

Half day
6200 yen

Nighter
3000 yen

Access

Car
40 minutes by bus or car from Yamagata Station.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

[How to get to and around Zao](e7926.html)