---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7711.html
title: Hideyo Noguchi Memorial Hall
description: Visitor guide for the Hideyo Noguchi Memorial Hall near Aizu-Wakamatsu.
keywords: hideyo, noguchi, memorial, hall, museum, fukushima, inawashiro, 1000, yen, bill, note
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 1720
char_count: 11514
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:24:48
---

The house where Noguchi Hideyo was born

The Hideyo Noguchi Memorial Hall (野口英世記念館, Noguchi Hideyo Kinenkan) is dedicated to Noguchi Hideyo, who had made significant contributions in his research towards a vaccine for yellow fever. Noguchi has also been credited with the discovery of the agent that causes syphilis, in 1911. He had humble beginnings at Inawashiro, [Fukushima Prefecture](/list/e1208.html), close to the city of [Aizu-Wakamatsu](e7700.html), but developed into a respected doctor nominated for the nobel prize.

Many people are probably more familiar with Noguchi Hideyo as the man whose picture is printed on the former 1000 [yen](e2196.html) bill. There is a robot replica of him in the memorial hall, which will come to life when visitors approach, and engage in a friendly conversation with them.

The memorial hall depicts the life story of Noguchi and exhibits belongings left behind by him and his family. It shares the values that Noguchi had for life, including the trait of perseverance and a legacy that is hoped to positively inspire future generations. Visitors can enter the house where Noguchi was born and experience the environment of a typical Japanese house in [Fukushima Prefecture](/list/e1208.html) of the [Meiji Period](e2130.html).

Noguchi Hideyo jokes about being the face of the former 1000 yen bill

The memorial hall is a ten minute [bus](e2015.html) ride from JR Inawashiro Station (300 yen, one bus every 2-3 hours). Take a bus bound for Aizu Recreation Park and Enichiji Temple (会津レクリエーション公園・慧日寺) and alight at the Hideo Noguchi Memorial Hall bus stop (野口英世記念館).

Inawashiro Station can be reached via the JR Banetsu-sai Line from [Aizu-Wakamatsu](e7700.html) (30 minutes, 510 yen, hourly trains) or Koriyama (40 minutes, 680 yen, hourly trains).

[How to get to and around Aizu](e7701.html)