---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7975.html
title: Ginzan Onsen Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Ginzan Onsen, a remote hot spring town in the mountains of Yamagata Prefecture.
keywords: ginzan, onsen, hot, spring, travel, guide, sightseeing, tourist, tourism, visitor, information, visit
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 820
char_count: 5359
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:48:04
---

Important Notice:

Updated: December 1, 2025

During the 2025/2026 winter season, Ginzan Onsen is introducing restrictions on non-staying visitors arriving by car in order to reduce congestion and prevent accidents or troubles caused by inadequately prepared visitors. Guests staying at local accommodations are exempt from these measures.

From December 20 to March 1, daytime visitors traveling by car must park at the Taisho Romankan parking lot, located about 1.5 kilometers outside the town center, and take a shuttle bus into Ginzan Onsen. Shuttle buses depart from the parking lot every 20 minutes between 9:00 and 18:00, with the final return service to the parking lot leaving the town at 19:30. A [fastpass system](https://www.ginzanonsen.jp/blog/archives/524) is available for daytime visitors who wish to reserve a shuttle bus for a specific time slot in advance. Visiting the town outside of the shuttle bus hours will not be possible.

Ginzan Onsen (銀山温泉, lit. "Silver Mountain Hot Spring") is a secluded [hot spring](e2292.html) town nestled in the mountains of [Yamagata Prefecture](/list/e1205.html). The area originally developed around a silver mine; however, these days it is better known as one of Japan's prettiest onsen towns with historic [ryokan](e2029.html) lined up along the river.

Ginzan Onsen's traditionally styled ryokan occupy beautiful three and four story wooden buildings that, with their exposed woodwork and white plaster walls, evoke nostalgic feelings of a bygone era. There is one exception, however, in the Fujiya ryokan at the center of town, which was recently rebuilt by famous modern [architect](e2111.html) Kuma Kengo. Although purists may find it out of place, its unique modern design incorporates many of the traditional design elements of the surrounding buildings, such as the same exposed wood and white plaster.

Fujiya Ryokan in the distance

The town center of Ginzan Onsen is a pedestrian-only zone due to the narrow streets and lack of parking. It is particularly nice in the evenings when the ryokan are all lit up and the streets and bridges are illuminated by gas lights. In winter, the scenery is enhanced by heavy snow that clings to the rooftops and walkways, while during the warmer months the ryokan guests are more likely to be out strolling about town in their [yukata](e2103.html).

Two [public baths](e2074.html) (500 yen each, one of them is currently closed) and a foot bath (free of charge) can be found around the town center. The open public bath, the Shiroganeyu, was also designed by Kuma Kengo. In addition, some of the town's [ryokan](e2029.html) open their baths to non-staying guests during daytime for typically 500-1500 yen. Most feature historic indoor baths.

A spectacular, 22 meter tall waterfall rushes constantly at the back of the town. Not far from its base is one of the entrances to the historic silver mine that was built here over 500 years ago and served as the town's lifeblood during the early [Edo Period](e2128.html). Visitors can enter the lit-up tunnel, although they cannot go very far in as it is only accessible for about twenty meters.

Tourists can see a little bit more of the mines by following a nature trail up into the valley for about 10-15 minutes past the waterfall. There, they will find a slightly longer section of the former mine for people to enter. Note, however, that the nature trail is not passable in winter and early spring due to snow.

Former silver mine in the mountains behind the town

### By train

Take the [JR Yamagata Shinkansen](e2018_tohoku.html) from [Tokyo](e2164.html) to Oishida Station (about 200 minutes, around 12,500 yen one way), from where [buses](e2015.html) depart roughly every two hours for Ginzan Onsen (35 minutes, 1000 yen one way). The train portion of the journey is fully covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), [JR East Tohoku Area Pass](e2361_tohoku.html) and [JR East South Hokkaido Pass](e2361_southhokkaido.html), but the bus ride is not.

### By car

A [rental car](e2024.html) can be convenient for exploring the area. Rental car outlets are available at stations along the Yamagata Shinkansen such as Murayama, Shinjo and Yamagata stations, as well as at Yamagata Airport. Parking is available at parking lots a 5-10 minute walk outside the town center. Many ryokan will pick up their guests from the parking lot.

### By air

There are two [bus](e2015.html) round trips per day between Yamagata Airport and Ginzan Onsen (75 minutes, 2000 yen one way) that require no prior reservations.