---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7001.html
title: Hikone Castle
description: Visitor guide for Hikone Castle, an original Japanese castle at the shores of Lake Biwa.
keywords: hikone, castle, hikonejo
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 549
char_count: 3828
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:50:32
---

After a construction period of 20 years, Hikone Castle (彦根城, Hikonejō) was completed in 1622. The hilltop castle served as the seat of the Ii clan until the end of the [feudal age](e2128.html) in 1868.

Hikone Castle is an original [castle](e2296.html), i.e. its castle keep has survived the post-feudal era intact. Besides the castle's main keep, most of the inner moats, walls, guard houses and gates also remain intact. Furthermore, parts of the castle's palace buildings have been reconstructed, giving visitors a good impression of a relatively complete Japanese feudal castle.

Three different types of gables are incorporated into the castle keep's exterior

Hikone Castle's three storied **castle keep** is relatively small but displays a unique design that combines multiple different architecture styles. This is one reason why the castle keep has been designated a national treasure, the highest designation for cultural properties in Japan, held by only four other castle keeps, namely the ones of [Himejijo](e3501.html), [Matsumotojo](e6051.html), [Inuyamajo](e3351.html) and [Matsuejo](e5801.html). By climbing the steep stairs on the inside of the castle keep to the top floor, visitors can enjoy views over the castle grounds and the city.

The approach to the hilltop castle keep is also interesting. It includes a spiral ramp onto a wooden bridge that can be easily destroyed in case of an attack. There are also several turrets which can be inspected from the inside as well as a large bell that is still rung several times per day to tell the time. A large store house and a horse stable stand near the castle's main gate.

A spiral approach to the castle

At the base of the castle hill stands the **Hikone Castle Museum** whose main attraction is a partial reconstruction of the former palace buildings. The buildings, which include multiple [tatami](e2007.html) rooms, corridors and gardens, served as the government offices of the lords and have been reconstructed in the 1980s with great care according to excavations. Ordinary exhibition rooms display the clan's family treasures, including arms and armor, [kimono](e2101.html), music instruments and documents.

Like many [castles](e2296.html) in Japan, the grounds of Hikone Castle turn into a popular [cherry blossom](e2011.html) spot in spring. Hikone's cherry trees reach full bloom usually about a week later than in nearby [Kyoto](e2158.html) around early to mid April. Not a cherry blossom spot but a place of considerable scenic beauty is [Genkyuen Garden](e7004.html) located at the base of the castle, just outside of the inner moat.

Reconstructed palace buildings in the Hikone Castle Museum

Hikone Castle is a 15 minute walk along the straight main road from Hikone Station.

[How to get to and around Hikone](e7003.html)