---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7690.html
title: Yuzawa Travel Guide
description: Visitor guide for Yuzawa, a large and popular ski resort in Niigata Prefecture, Japan.
keywords: yuzawa, niigata, japan, ski, naeba, skiing, snowboard, winter, snow
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 1097
char_count: 7815
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 22:43:45
---

Yuzawa (湯沢) in [Niigata Prefecture](/list/e1207.html) is one of the largest and the most easily accessed [ski](e2262.html) areas from [Tokyo](e2164.html). You can be on the slopes from Tokyo Station in under two hours. Yuzawa is known for deep powder and a long season, with some resorts open from mid November to late May.

There are over a dozen ski resorts around Yuzawa, varying in size from one to over twenty lifts. While some are near the town center, others are more remote, but they can all be accessed by public transport.

A few resorts team up to offer combination lift tickets that give you access to all of the participating resorts. They are typically connected to each other so that you can [ski or snowboard](e2262.html) between them.

Yuzawa is also known for its [onsen](e2292.html) (hot springs), with baths located at the ski resorts, hotels, public bath houses and [shinkansen](e2018.html) stations. Echigo-Yuzawa Station offers, furthermore, an all-you-can-try [sake](e2037_sake.html) shop at which you can compare almost 100 different varieties of sake from [Niigata Prefecture](/list/e1207.html) for 500 yen.

### Gala Yuzawa, Ishiuchi Maruyama, Yuzawa Kogen Group

A special combination ticket, known as "Yuzawa Snow Link", is available for all three resorts. It costs 9500 yen (8500 yen if purchased online in advance) and can be bought at any of the three resorts' ticket counters.

Gala Yuzawa

Just 90 minutes from Tokyo Station, Gala Yuzawa is the easiest resort in Yuzawa to access by train. The gondola to the mountain leaves directly from the [shinkansen](e2018.html) station, but be sure to check the wind conditions before you leave as the gondola does not operate when it is windy. Lift ticket prices are lowered during the shoulder seasons and if purchased online.

Season\*

**Mid December to early May**  
(December 20, 2025 to May 6, 2026)

Lifts

11 lifts

Tickets

Full day
7300 yen

Half day
6500 yen

Nighter
N/A

Access

Bus/Train
[Joetsu Shinkansen](e2018.html) to Gala Yuzawa Station.

Car
Three kilometers from Yuzawa Interchange.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

Ishiuchi Maruyama

Ishiuchi Maruyama is one of the oldest establishments in the Yuzawa area and is known to have great powder. The resort is fairly large and offers some really long runs. Lift ticket prices are lowered during the shoulder seasons.

Season\*

**Mid December to early April**  
(December 19, 2025 to April 5, 2026)

Lifts

13 lifts

Tickets

One day
7900 yen

Half day
6300 yen

Nighter
3800 yen

Access

Bus/Train
Three mins walk from Ishiuchi Station or ten mins by free shuttle from Echigo-Yuzawa Station.

Car
Four kilometers from Shiozawa Ishiuchi Interchange.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

Yuzawa Kogen

Yuzawa Kogen is located near the Yuzawa Interchange and Echigo-Yuzawa Station. The resort is made up mostly beginner in intermediate courses, and offers a family and kids' snowland with a variety of snow experiences to enjoy. Lift ticket prices are lowered if purchased online.

Season\*

**Mid December to early April**  
(December 13, 2025 to April 5, 2026)

Lifts

5 lifts

Tickets

Full day
6900 yen

Half day
5200 yen

Nighter
N/A

Access

Bus/Train
Two mins by free shuttle bus from Echigo-Yuzawa Station.

Car
Two kilometers from Yuzawa Interchange.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

### Naeba, Kagura Group

A combination ticket for Naeba and Kagura can be purchased for 9800 yen at either resort.

Naeba

Naeba is operated by Prince Hotels and is very popular even though it is the most remote of the major Yuzawa resorts. It has a large number of lifts, with multiple lifts serving each run. The slopes are generally steep, and can become quite crowded on weekends. Naeba is connected to neighboring Kagura via the Dragondola, an extremely long arial lift that spans the 5.5 kilometer distance between the resorts.

Season\*

**Mid December to late March**  
(December 13, 2025 to April 5, 2026)

Lifts

12 lifts

Tickets

Full day
7800 yen

Half day
6300 yen

Nighter
unclear

Access

Bus/Train
50 mins by bus from Echigo-Yuzawa Station.

Car
21 kilometers from Yuzawa Interchange.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

Kagura

Known for having good powder and long runs, Kagura is reached by either the Kagura/Mitsumata or Tashiro gondolas. It is also connected to Naeba via the Dragondola. Kagura has the longest season of the Yuzawa resorts thanks to its location high up in the mountains. Night skiing is not offered.

Season\*

**Late November to late May**  
(November 22, 2025 to May 17, 2026)

Lifts

18 lifts

Tickets

Full day
7500 yen

Half day
5500-6000 yen

Nighter
N/A

Access

Bus/Train
25 mins by bus from Echigo-Yuzawa Station.

Car
Eight kilometers from Yuzawa Interchange.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

### Iwappara, Joetsu Kokusai Group

The two ski resorts form a group; however, they are not physically connected to each other.

Iwappara

Iwappara is located near the center of Yuzawa Town. The main area of Iwappara is extremely wide, well groomed and an excellent place for beginners. In addition, the resort has good snow play facilities for children.

Season\*

**Late December to late March**  
(December 20, 2025 to March 29, 2026)

Lifts

9 lifts

Tickets

Full day
5800 yen

Afternoon
4500 yen

Nighter
1500 yen

Access

Bus/Train
10 mins by bus from Echigo Yuzawa Station or a 15 min walk from Iwappara Skijo-mae Station.

Car
Three kilometers from Yuzawa Interchange.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

Joetsu Kokusai

Joetsu Kokusai is one of Japan's largest resorts, spanning a number of mountains and valleys. It offers long runs and lots of powder. Joetsu Kokusai is about ten kilometers north of central Yuzawa.

Season\*

**Early December to early April**  
(December 6, 2025 to April 5, 2026)

Lifts

18 lifts

Tickets

Full day
5800 yen

Afternoon
4500 yen

Nighter
1500 yen

Access

Bus/Train
25 minutes by shuttle bus from Echigo-Yuzawa Station or a few steps from Joetsu Kokusai Skijo-mae Station.

Car
Six kilometers from Shiozawa Ishiuchi Interchange.

\* Season dates may be adjusted due to lack of snow. Check before going.

Echigo-Yuzawa Station can be reached from Tokyo Station in around 80-90 minutes by the [Joetsu Shinkansen](e2018_joetsu.html). During the winter, some trains from/to Tokyo serve Gala Yuzawa Station in the mornings and evenings, while a shuttle train runs between Echigo-Yuzawa and Gala Yuzawa during the day. The one way trip between Tokyo and Yuzawa costs around 6500 yen and is covered by the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html), [JR East Nagano Niigata Area Pass](e2361_nagano_niigata.html) and [JR Tokyo Wide Pass](e2361_06.html).

Furthermore, [JR](e2019.html) and travel agencies sell a range of discount travel plans that combine a round trip from Tokyo to Yuzawa with lift passes and/or accommodation.