---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7479.html
title: Mizusawa Temple
description: Visitor guide for Mizusawa Temple and the udon noodles for which the area is famous.
keywords: mizusawa, kannon, temple, udon, noodles, ikaho
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 379
char_count: 2769
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:29:14
---

Mizusawa Kannon (水澤観音) is a temple founded over 1300 years ago on the mountain slope southeast of [Ikaho Onsen](e7475.html). The [temple](e2058.html) is devoted to Kannon, the [Buddhist](e2055.html) goddess of compassion. Its main object of worship is an 11-faced, thousand-armed statue of the deity. Unfortunately the statue is never displayed publicly; nevertheless, the temple plays an important religious role as one of the 33 sites of the Kanto Kannon Pilgrimage.

Mizusawa Kannon's temple grounds consist of several buildings, including a main hall, bell house and pagoda, painted bright red and adorned with colorful and ornate animal carvings. The hexagonal, two-storied pagoda is a particular rarity, and features a rotating inner column which visitors can turn around three times for good luck.

Another popular draw to Mizusawa Kannon are the restaurants that line the street below the temple. These shops specialize in **Mizusawa Udon**, a local dish of wheat noodles with a satisfying chewy texture. Mizusawa Udon are usually served cold with a sesame or [soy sauce](e2045.html) based dipping sauce.

Mizusawa Udon are recognized as one of the three most famous types of [udon noodles](/r/e105.html) in Japan alongside [Kagawa](/list/e1233.html)'s [Sanuki Udon](e5408.html) and [Akita](/list/e1203.html)'s Inaniwa Udon.

Mizusawa Temple can be reached by local [buses](e2015.html) from Ikaho. The bus takes about 10 minutes and costs 340 yen one way. There are departures approximately every hour.

[How to get to and around Ikaho](e7476.html)