---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7676.html
title: Tokyo to Sado Island\: How to get to and around Sado Island
description: Orientation and transportation on Sado Island.
keywords: sado, island, niigata, access, orientation, transportation, how, travel, bus, ferry, air, flight, plane
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 634
char_count: 4375
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:29:43
---

From/To:

TokyoOsakaKyoto

Sado Island lies about 50 kilometers off the coast of [Niigata Prefecture](/list/e1207.html). The island can be accessed by ferry through two ports: **Ryotsu** is the main port with connections to Niigata City around the year, while **Ogi** is a smaller port with connections to Naoetsu outside of winter.

[Flights](e2365.html) between Niigata and Sado Island were discontinued in spring 2014, but a new airline, Toki Air, aims to resume flights in the future.

From [Tokyo](e2164.html), take the [JR Joetsu Shinkansen](e2018_joetsu.html) to Niigata Station (2 hours, 10,500 yen, covered by [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html)). Alternatively, daytime and overnight [highway buses](e2366.html) make the one way trip in about 5.5 hours and for typically 5,000 to 6,000 yen depending on the day of travel. Discount bus companies, such as [Willer Express](https://willerexpress.com/en/bus_search/tokyo/all/niigata/niigata/?utm_source=web&utm_medium=ad&utm_campaign=af01&aid=184), have fares from around 3,000 yen.

From Niigata, Sado Kisen operates car [ferries](e2355.html) (departures every 3 hours) and high speed jetfoils (departures every 1-2 hours depending on the season) to Ryotsu on [Sado Island](e7675.html). The one way journey by car ferry takes 2.5 hours and costs around 2,900 yen per person and around 19,000 yen for an average sized car. By jetfoil it takes one hour and costs around 7,000 yen. The ferry terminal in Niigata is located next to the Toki Messe complex, a 15 minute bus ride from Niigata Station (260 yen one way). Online reservations are possible via [Direct Ferries](https://www.directferries.com/?dfpid=2097&affid=3&rurl=sado_kisen.htm).

From [Tokyo](e2164.html), take the [JR Hokuriku Shinkansen](e2018_nagano.html) to Joetsu Myoko Station (around two hours, about 9,000 yen one way) and transfer to a local train to Naoetsu Station (15 minutes, 400 yen one way). The journey is fully covered by the [JR East Nagano Niigata Area Pass](e2361_nagano_niigata.html), but the [Japan Rail Pass](e2361.html) does not cover the non-JR section between Joetsu Myoko and Naoetsu. From Naoetsu, Sado Kisen operates two [ferries](e2355.html) per day to [Ogi](e7680.html) on [Sado Island](e7675.html) from late April to mid November. There are no ferries during winter. The one way journey takes 160 minutes and costs around 3,000 yen. Online reservations are possible via [Direct Ferries](https://www.directferries.com/?dfpid=2097&affid=3&rurl=sado_kisen.htm).

Above fees and schedules are subject to change. Be sure to check current yen [exchange rates](e2196.html).

[Sado Island](e7675.html) is made up of two mountain ranges: the Osado Mountains (Large Sado Mountains) on the northern half of the island and the Kosado Mountains (Small Sado Mountains) on the southern half. Between the two ranges lies the Kuninaka Plain and Ryotsu Town, the largest town on the island.

If you want to visit various places across Sado Island, a [rental car](e2024.html) is the most convenient way for getting around. Most rental car outlets are found around Ryotsu Port. Road conditions are generally good along the major roads.

There are no [trains](e2019.html) on Sado. Instead, the island is covered by a relatively dense network of [bus](e2015.html) lines. Unfortunately, service along most of the bus lines is infrequent and slow. The map below shows some of the major bus lines on Sado: