---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7755.html
title: Mount Bandai (Bandaisan)
description: Basic guide for climbing Mount Bandai (Bandaisan) in western Fukushima Prefecture.
keywords: mount, bandai, bandaisan, hiking
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 477
char_count: 3415
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:24:07
---

Mount Bandai

Mount Bandai (磐梯山, Bandaisan) is a 1816 meter tall [volcano](e2327.html) overlooking [Aizu-Wakamatsu](e7700.html) in western [Fukushima Prefecture](/list/e1208.html). One of the 100 famous mountains of Japan, it used to have a conical shape, which earned it the nickname Aizu-Fuji due to is resemblance to [Mount Fuji](e2172.html). However in 1888, one of the most powerful eruptions in recent history drastically changed Mount Bandai's shape and formed the [Urabandai](e7752.html) area behind the mountain.

Visitors can approach the mountain via the **Bandaisan Gold Line**, a sightseeing road which leads up the southwestern side of the mountain, before descending down into the [Urabandai](e7752.html) highlands. The road is a popular destination in late October when the [fall foliage](e2014.html) turns the slopes bright orange and yellow.

Along the Bandaisan Gold Line

The easiest **hiking trail** up the mountain starts along the Bandaisan Gold Line at the Happodai Trailhead. From there it is a relatively easy, two hour [hike](e2427.html) to the summit, passing interesting points along the way such as an abandoned mountain lodge next to an active [hot spring](e2292.html) foot bath. About 90 minutes into the hike you leave the forest and reach a set of mountain huts situated with panoramic views. From there it is a final 20-30 minute push to the summit.

There are also several longer trails, which begin from various trailheads spread out around the base of Mount Bandai. These include a trail that begins from the western end of the [Goshikinuma Walk](e7752.html) (3-4 hours one way to the summit), one that departs near JR Bandaimachi Station (7 hours), and trails from most of the mountain's [ski resorts](e7753.html) (3-4 hours).

Visitors can learn more about the mountain and its 1888 eruption in the **Mount Bandai Eruption Memorial Museum** in the town of [Urabandai](e7752.html). The museum features a "body sonic" simulation, which gives visitors a chance to experience the eruption.

Along the trail from Happodai

There is no [public transportation](e627.html) along the Bandaisan Gold Line up the mountain. [Rental car](e2024.html) outlets are available in [Aizu-Wakamatsu](e7700.html), Koriyama and [Fukushima City](e7725.html). Alternatively, a [taxi](e2021.html) to the Happodai trailhead costs about 6000 yen one way from JR Bandaimachi Station or 10,000 yen from JR Inawashiro Station. The Bandaisan Gold Line used to be a toll road, but it is currently free in order to promote tourism.

[How to get to and around Bandai](e7751.html)