---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7114.html
title: Kokusaidori Street
description: Visitor guide for Kokusaidori, the main street of Naha.
keywords: kokusaidori, kukusai, dori, street, heiwa, heiwadori, naha, okinawa
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 2021
char_count: 13828
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:33:35
---

Kokusaidori (国際通り, Kokusaidōri, literally "International Road") is [Naha](e7102.html)'s main tourist and shopping street, stretching for roughly two kilometers through downtown Naha. The street takes its name from the former "Ernie Pyle International Theater", a movie theater that was built along the road after the war.

Starting around the Naha Bus Terminal and the Okinawa Prefectural Office, Kokusaidori is lined by restaurants, cafes, bars, [hotels](e2025.html), souvenir shops, boutiques and [department stores](e2072.html). Many shops remain open until 10pm, and live Okinawa music is played at several restaurants.

Kokusaidori by night

If you are looking for even more shopping, venture into the colorful Heiwadori, Mutsumidori and Ichiba Hondori **covered shopping arcades** that branch off from Kokusaidori around the intersection with Okieidori, halfway along the street. The shops in the arcade are smaller than those along Kokusaidori and are often made up of just a small booth and a single shop owner.

Further down the shopping arcades away from Kokusaidori, the atmosphere becomes less touristy as souvenir shops give way to establishments catering more to locals. In addition to a variety of bars, eateries and clothing and hardware shops, there are also fruit shops purveying tropical [fruits](e2347.html) such as pineapples, mangos and passionfruit. Throughout the shopping arcades, establishments vary in their hours, with some bars and eateries open well into the night.

Also in this area is the Daiichi Makishi Public Market with vendors selling an array of meat, seafood and produce as well as inexpensive dry goods such as household items. The market building was rebuit and reopened in March 2023. Besides the food stands on the first floor, it houses several restaurants on the second floor.

The colorful covered shopping arcades off Kokusaidori

Kokusaidori Street is located right in central [Naha](e7102.html). The street stretches from the Naha Bus Terminal to Makishi Station on the Okinawa Monorail. It is also only a few steps away from the monorail's Kencho-mae and Miebashi stations.

[How to get to and around Naha](e7118.html)