---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7104.html
title: Shikinaen Garden
description: Visitor guide for Shikinaen, the second residence of the former Ryukyu kings with nice gardens.
keywords: shikina, en, shikinaen, park, garden, ryukyu, naha
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 2037
char_count: 13737
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:33:14
---

Shikinaen (識名園) was constructed in the end of the 18th century as the second residence of the [Ryukyu kings](e7103.html). It features beautiful, relatively simple, wooden palace buildings with Okinawan-style, red tile roofs and a spacious Japanese-style [landscape garden](e2099.html) with a central pond. While the garden is designed in a style seen elsewhere in Japan, the architecture and flora give Shikinaen a uniquely [Okinawan](/list/e1247.html) flavor.

Shikinaen was completely destroyed in the [Battle of Okinawa](e7105.html) of 1945, but has been neatly restored in the postwar years. In 2000, Shikinaen was among the sites added to the list of [UNESCO World Heritage Sites](e2251.html) under the title [Gusuku Sites and Related Properties of the Kingdom of Ryukyu](e7125.html).

A pair of stone bridges lead across the pond

The garden can be viewed from a 300 meter circular path, which leads through a forested area before reaching the pond. Two stone bridges connect to a small islet in the middle of the water and allow visitors to cross from one side of the pond to the other. A small hexagonal pavilion stands on a second islet. Artificial hills surround the pond and give the garden more vantage points and character.

The palace building stands near the pond's shore. The beautifully wooden structure used to serve the entertainment of the royal family and important guests. Today, visitors can inspect the building's large [tatami rooms](e2007.html) that look out onto the garden.

Inside the palace building

### By public transportation

Shikinaen Garden is one of the few attractions in [Naha](e7102.html) that is not accessible by the Okinawa Monorail. Instead it can be reached in about 20 minutes and for 260 yen one way from central Naha by [bus](e2015.html) numbers 2, 4, 5 and 14. Among the four lines, bus number 2 and 5 operate frequently. Line 5 can be boarded along [Kokusaidori](e7114.html), while line 2 stops at the prefectural office (県庁前, Kenchō-mae) near the Naha Bus Terminal. Line 14 also serves [Shuri Castle](e7103.html).

### By car

By [car](e2024.html), Shikinaen can be reached in ten minutes from central Naha or 20 minutes from Naha Airport. Note, however, that the trip can take considerably longer during rush hours.

[How to get to and around Naha](e7118.html)