---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7900.html
title: Dewa Sanzan Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for the mountain shrines of Dewa Sanzan in Yamagata Prefecture.
keywords: dewa, sanzan, three, sacred, mountains, shugendo, worship, yamagata, tsuruoka, yamagata
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 355
char_count: 2941
crawled_at: 2025-12-21 20:47:23
---

Dewa Sanzan (出羽三山, "three mountains of Dewa") are three sacred mountains in [Yamagata Prefecture](/list/e1205.html), each with a shrine on or near its peak. The mountains are named [Haguro-san](e7902.html), [Gas-san](e7903.html) and [Yudono-san](e7904.html) and remain centers of mountain worship. Representing birth ([Haguro-san](e7902.html)), death ([Gas-san](e7903.html)) and rebirth ([Yudono-san](e7904.html)), the mountains are usually visited in that order.

Dewa Sanzan is a center of Shugendo, a folk religion based on mountain worship, blending [Buddhist](e2055.html) and [Shinto](e2056.html) traditions. Shugendo practitioners, called yamabushi, perform feats of endurance as a means of transcending the physical world. Training includes such tasks as long pilgrimages and endurance of the elements.

Evidence of Shugendo's most extreme test of physical endurance and religious devotion lies in the nearby [Churenji and Dainichibo temples](e7905.html), where two monks succeeded in preserving their own bodies as mummies through extreme diet modification and meditation. Although the practice is now banned, these self-mummified monks are considered Buddhas.

Part of Dewa Sanzan's appeal is its remoteness. [Yamagata](/list/e1205.html)'s heavy snowfall makes travel in the mountains difficult during the winter when only [Haguro-san](e7902.html) remains open. The best time to visit is between July and mid September when all three [shrines](e2059.html) are open.

* [](/e/e7904.html)

  1

  Shrine

  [Yudono-san•••](/e/e7904.html)

  The most sacred of the three Dewa Sanzan.

  4.4

  

  56
* [](/e/e7902.html)

  2

  Shrine

  [Haguro-san••](/e/e7902.html)

  Easiest accessible of the three Dewa Sanzan.

  4.4

  

  106
* [](/e/e7903.html)

  3

  Shrine

  [Gas-san••](/e/e7903.html)

  The highest of the three Dewa Sanzan.

  4.1

  

  64
* [](/e/e7905.html)

  4

  Temple

  [Churenji, Dainichibo•](/e/e7905.html)

  Temples known for Buddhist mummies.

  3.7

  

  33

Side Trips from Dewa Sanzan

* [](/e/e7990.html)

  1

  [Sakata](/e/e7990.html)

  Commercial center at the Sea of Japan coast.

  3.5

  

  22

[Tokyo](/e/e2164.html)[Kyoto](/e/e2158.html)[Dewa Sanzan](e7900.html)

[Getting to and around Dewa Sanzan](e7901.html)
[See access info](e7901.html)