---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7678.html
title: Sado Kinzan Gold Mine
description: Visitor guide for the gold mine on Sado Island.
keywords: sado, kinzan, island, niigata, gold, mine
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 1541
char_count: 9818
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:29:38
---

Sado Kinzan (佐渡金山) was the most productive gold mine in Japan, annually producing nearly 400 kilograms of gold as well as smaller amounts of silver and copper. The mine was in operation from 1601 throughout the [Edo Period](e2128.html) (1603-1868) and served as a major source of funding for the Tokugawa Shogunate, which directly controlled [Sado Island](e7675.html) and its mines. The mine remained in service into the modern times until ceasing operations in 1989. It was designated a [World Heritage Site](e2251.html) in 2024.

Today the Sado Kinzan Gold Mine is open to tourists as an [industrial heritage site](e2465.html). The main attractions are two walking courses, which lead through some of the former mining tunnels: one from the feudal ages and one from more modern times. Furthermore, there are many related ruined sites around the mines and the adjacent town of Aikawa, whose population was more than ten times larger during the peak of its gold-related prosperity than today.

Doyu no Warito, the symbol of the Sado Gold Mines: a mountain split by past mining activities

The older of the two mines open to the public, the **Sodayu Mine** was hand-dug around four centuries ago. Today it is well set up for tourists with life-size displays of animatronic miners "working" the mines. Informative bilingual signs provide further details about the hard work conditions and the tools and techniques used. The walking route is fully underground, and interested visitors will take 20-30 minutes to complete it. Note that the temperature in the tunnel remains around 10 degrees Celsius (50 degrees Fahrenheit) around the year.

The walking course ends at a museum, which explains with beautiful models the history of the mine, the mining process, and how mining technology evolved over time. It also has exhibits about the gold produced, and one of the most popular attractions is a large actual gold bar worth over 100 million yen, which can be touched and lifted. A souvenir shop with gold-related products and some simple food options is found downstairs.

The Sodayu Mine with animatronic miners illustrating the former work conditions

The **Doyu Mine** is the more modern of the two open mines. It was machine-dug in 1899, and parts of it have been preserved in the state they were in when operations ceased in 1989. The walking course first leads through a mining tunnel, which meets up with a miniature train system and a cavity where mining took place. Visitors then once exit the tunnel, where they find a workshop with tools and machinery used during the last years of operations.

From the workshop, visitors have the option to walk up the mountain for about 200 meters to a small shrine dedicated to an important former director of the mines and an observation deck with close-up views towards the Doyu no Warito, the symbolic mountain peak, which was split in half and hollowed out by the mining works. Doyu is the name of one of the first gold ore veins discovered on Sado, and mining on it continued into modern times.

Tunnels in the more modern Doyu Mine

The walking course then remains outdoors and leads from the workshop past a small park and the upper part of the ruined crushing plant, where excavated rocks were crushed and sorted from 1938 until 1989. The course finally follows a train track back into a mining tunnel, which brings visitors back to the souvenir shop. The entire course will typically take 30-60 minutes, depending on whether the walk to the observation deck is included or not.

Besides the two above-mentioned walking courses, which are explored individually, the mine also offers guided tours of some other mining tunnels and other industrial heritage sites in the area; however, these guided tours require advance reservations.

The workshop along the Doyu Mine walking course

Besides the mine tunnels, many ruined buildings and **other sites of interest** related to the mines can still be found in the forested mountains around the mines and down in the town of Aikawa. Find below a map and a list of some of the more interesting sites:

* 

  Kitazawa Flotation Plant

  Always open, admission free

  The ruins of the Kitazawa Flotation Plant are some of Japan's most fascinating [industrial ruins](e2465.html). Now covered by vegetation, the flotation plant was in operation from 1938 until 1952, extracting gold and silver with then-cutting-edge technology. Other ruins include a power plant and thickener. Visitors can observe the ruins from spacious plazas; however, entry into the ruins is prohibited. A pleasant cafe can also be found on site. From mid April to early January (April 18, 2025 to January 5, 2026), the ruins are illuminated in the evenings from 19:00 to 22:00 (from 17:00 from October to January).
* 

  [Sado Bugyosho](e7679.html)

  Hours: 8:30 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: December 29 to January 3  
  Admission: 500 yen

  Because the Sado Gold Mine was of such strategic importance to Japan, the [Tokugawa shogun](e2128.html) established direct control over the island. Their representatives were based in the [Sado Bugyosho](e7679.html) or Sado Magistrate's Office, which was beautifully reconstructed and opened for tourists to inspect in the year 2000.
* 

  Kyomachi-dori Street

  Kyomachi-dori Street used to be a main street of Aikawa during the height of the town's prosperity. It retains a certain pleasant atmosphere today, and small signs of the glorious past can be spotted here and there. About 400 meters uphill stands the [former Aikawa Prison](#prison). If you follow the road for another 400 meters, you will enter the forest, where the road turns into a nature path and leads to the mine's former [crushing plant](#crushing) and [smelting plant](#smelting) after another 400 meters. From there the gold mine itself is another 400 meters uphill along the main road.
* 

  Aikawa Prison

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00  
  Admission: free

  Located in the upper section of [Kyomachi-dori Street](#kyomachidori), this former prison - in use from 1954 to 1972 - can be entered and explored by tourists for a slightly spooky experience, including the cells, kitchen, bath room and offices. The prison is unmanned and needs to be entered through the small gate within the large iron entrance gate.
* 

  Crushing Plant Ruins

  In operation from 1938 until 1989, the crushing plant crushed and sorted excavated rocks from the mines. It includes a conveyor-belt structure and storehouse built along a steep slope. The upper area of the crushing plant can be viewed along the [Doyu Mine walking course](#doyu) of the Sado Kinzan Gold Mine, while the complex can also be viewed from below from the road around parking lot #3. However, the plant ruins cannot be entered.
* 

  Smelting Plant Ruins

  Smelting plants, which extracted gold from gold ore, operated in this hillside location - just opposite the road from the [crushing plant](#crushing) - from 1891 until 1943. Only the foundations of the plant remain today, while the wooden buildings have been lost. Visitors can approach the base of the foundations.
* 

  Oma Port

  Constructed in Aikawa Town during the [Meiji Period](e2130.html) (1868-1912), Oma Port was where mining-related materials, such as ore and coal, were shipped into and out of [Sado](e7675.html). The port is notable for its construction style, which predates concrete constructions.
* 

  Odate Shaft

  Odate Shaft was the first Western-style vertical mining shaft used in Japan. Opened in 1877, the elevator-equipped shaft was initially 165 meters deep, and by the time of its closure in 1989 it reached a depth of 352 meters. Construction work is currently going on around the shaft tower to protect it from rockfall. The photo shows the shaft tower covered up by scaffolding.
* 

  Aoban Vein Mining Site

  Lining the road between the tourist entrance to the gold mine and the [Odate Shaft](#odate), this is the former mining site of the Aoban gold ore vein, the largest gold ore vein on [Sado](e7675.html). It is located in the rear of the Doyu no Warito, the split mountain and symbol of the Sado Gold Mines. The site can be viewed from the road, but it cannot be entered.
* 

  Kirarium Sado

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (museum entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: December 29 to January 3  
  Museum admission: 300 yen

  Kirarium Sado is a welcome center (free to enter) and museum (paid admission) about the gold mine. It is well done and a good place to learn about the history and relevance of the mine.

### By car

The Sado Gold Mine can be reached in about 45 minutes by [car](e2024.html) from Ryotsu Port via Sawata.

### By bus

Some [buses](e2015.html) along the Main Line operate all the way from Ryotsu to the Sado Gold Mine (75 minutes, 860 yen one way, hourly on weekends, but less frequent on weekdays). The other buses go only as far as Aikawa (one hour, 860 yen, 1-2 buses per hour), from where the Gold Mine is a short [taxi](e2021.html) or additional bus ride (infrequent departures) or a 30-45 minute walk.

[How to get to and around Sado Island](e7676.html)