---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e7027.html
title: Miho Museum
description: Visitor guide for the Miho Art Museum in Shiga.
keywords: miho, museum, art, shiga, kyoto, day, trip
content_type: onsen_or_rural
word_count: 434
char_count: 3057
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:14:16
---

The Miho Museum stands deep in the forested hill west of central [Koka](e7025.html) and can be visited in a side trip from [Kyoto](e2158.html). It was designed by the renowned architect, I. M. Pei, and is named after Koyama Mihoko, one of the richest women in Japan and the founder of the museum.

Perhaps the most interesting aspect of the museum is the design of its structures and how they are integrated into their natural surroundings. This is highlighted in the museum's approach which leads through a mixture of man-made and natural environments. The inside of the museum continues this theme by contrasting steel and glass with warm stone and panoramic views of the surrounding valleys.

The museum's exhibits consist of works from ancient civilizations including the Egyptians, Romans and various Asian cultures, with the pieces largely coming from Koyama's private collection. The main exhibition changes every year or so, and special exhibitions change every few months.

### From Kyoto

Take the JR Tokaido Line (local, rapid or special rapid service) from [Kyoto Station](e3922.html) to Ishiyama Station (15 minutes, 240 yen one way). From there take Teisan bus number 150 to the Miho Museum (50 minutes, 1000 yen one way). The [bus](e2015.html) departs from bus stop three and says Miho Museum in both English and Japanese on its sign.

The bus arrives at the museum's reception building which contains the ticket desk, gift shop, and a small restaurant. Purchase your tickets here before making your way to the museum's entrance either on foot (5-10 minutes) or by free museum shuttle.

Bus stop number three at Ishiyama Station

### From Central Koka

Although there is a road that connects central [Koka](e7025.html) with the Miho Museum, there exists no direct public transportation between the two. Instead, a detour via Kusatsu and Ishiyama would be required. A [rental car](e2024.html) is recommended if you plan to visit both the Miho Museum and Koka's ninja attractions.