---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e8106.html
title: Best cherry blossom spots in Tottori (Tottori Hanami Spots)
description: A list of popular hanami (cherry blossom viewing) spots in Tottori.
keywords: tottori, sakura, cherry, blossom, blossoms, hanami, spot, spots
content_type: other_region
word_count: 1765
char_count: 11325
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:04:12
---

Below is a list of popular spots for cherry blossom viewing ([hanami](e2011.html)) in and around [Tottori](e8100.html), including the typical timing for best viewing in the average year and japan-guide.com ratings. See also our nationwide list of [famous cherry blossom spots](e2011_where.html).

* 

  [Tottori Castle Ruins•](e8103.html)

  Early to mid April

  10 minute bus ride or 30 minute walk from Tottori Station

  The grounds of the [former Tottori Castle](e8103.html), also known as Kyusho Park, are [Tottori](e8100.html)'s most famous cherry blossom spot. Located along a mountain slope, the park features over 200 trees and nice views over the city. During the peak of the season, the trees are lit up by paper lanterns in the evenings.
* 

  Fukurogawa River

  Early to mid April

  10 minute walk from Tottori Station in direction of the former castle

  The Fukurogawa is a river that flows through central Tottori, where it is lined by more than 200 cherry trees for about 1.5 kilometers. A narrow walking trail follows the river.
* 

  Inaba Senbonzakura•

  Early to mid April

  15 minutes by bus or 10 minutes by taxi from Tottori Station

  Senbonzakura means "a thousand cherry trees" and Inaba is the old name of the region that makes up eastern [Tottori Prefecture](/list/e1231.html). The cherry trees are found in one corner of the impressive Coca Cola West Sports Park that also contains numerous sports facilities, just outside the city center. The pleasant park is a perfect place for [hanami picnics](e2011_how.html).
* 

  Koyamaike Aoshima Park•

  Early to late April

  20 minutes by bus from Tottori Station

  A few kilometers outside the city center lies Koyamaike Pond, the largest body of water in Japan that is named "ike" (usually translated as "pond" in English). The pond's Aoshima Island can be reached via a bridge and has a pleasant, 1.6 kilometer long, coastal walking trail. Hundreds of cherry trees are planted along the trail and in the island's hilly interior. Among the trees are many [late blooming varieties](e2011_species.html).

[How to get to and around Tottori](e8101.html)