---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e8003.html
title: Seagaia Resort
description: Visitor guide for the Seagaia Resort in Miyazaki.
keywords: seagaia, resort, hotel, golf, golfcourse, miyazaki
content_type: other_region
word_count: 1669
char_count: 11043
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:08:34
---

The Phoenix Seagaia Resort (フェニックス・シーガイア・リゾート) is a spacious oceanside resort spanning nearly ten kilometers of coastline north of central [Miyazaki City](e8000.html). More than just a collection of hotels, Seagaia is a symbol of Miyazaki's resort heritage and offers its guests a wealth of things to do.

Attractions at the resort include [hot springs](e2292.html), spas, restaurants, [beaches](e2461.html) with excellent surfing, tennis facilities and various outdoor activities. The resort is also home to two [golf courses](e2082.html) set attractively in the coastal black pine woods, including the Phoenix Country Club, one of Japan's most celebrated courses.

### From Miyazaki Station

[Buses](e2015.html) operate between Miyazaki Station and the resort. The central bus stop is named Phoenix Seagaia Ocean Tower and is located in front of the resort's main hotel of the same name. The trip takes about 25 minutes and costs 570 yen. There are also twice daily free shuttle buses between the resort and Miyazaki Station (see [official website](#section_links), resevations are not possible). Alternatively, a [taxi](e2021.html) takes around 15 minutes and costs about 3000 yen.

### From Miyazaki Airport

On weekends and [public holidays](e2062.html), buses operates between Miyazaki Airport and the resort. The trip takes about 25 minutes and costs 930 yen. A taxi ride takes around 20 minutes and costs about 4500 yen.

[How to get to and around Miyazaki](e8001.html)