---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e8103.html
title: Tottori Castle Ruins
description: Visitor guide for the Tottori Castle Ruins and Jinpukaku Guest House.
keywords: tottori, castle, ruins, jinpukaku, guesthouse, japan
content_type: other_region
word_count: 1797
char_count: 11514
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 13:50:10
---

Tottori Castle Ruins overlooking the Jinpukaku Residence

Tottori Castle was originally built in 1532 and served as the regional center of power during Japan's [era of warring states](e2134.html). Later it served as the seat of the Ikeda Clan who ruled the powerful Tottori fiefdom during the [Edo Period](e2128.html). Unfortunately, the castle fell victim to the modernization policies of the [Meiji Period](e2130.html) government and was subsequently destroyed.

Today the **Tottori Castle Ruins** are all that remain on the side of Mount Kyusho at the northeastern end of the city center, with only the castle's stone walls and a single wooden gate still standing. Visitors may climb up the castle courtyards to an observation point that offers a commanding view over Tottori City. There are also hundreds of [cherry trees](e2011.html) planted along the stone walls which make the ruins one of the city's more popular [cherry blossom viewing spots](e8106.html) around early to mid April.

View over the city from the castle ruins

After the end of the feudal age in [1907](e2130.html), the former lord constructed a European-style building at the base of the castle ruins. Named **Jinpukaku** (closed for renovations from 2023 to 2028 or early 2029), the white wooden building features open verandas, brick fireplaces and a beautiful wooden spiral staircase that has become a key feature of its architecture.

The building was the first in Tottori to have electric lights and served as a symbol of modernization. Over the years it was also used as a guest house for the visiting crown prince, as a public hall, reception hall and a prefectural museum. Today it houses a small museum about the Ikeda Clan and serves as a public event space, while the [Tottori Prefectural Museum](e8105.html#prefectural) moved to a larger complex nearby.

Castle Ruins

Take the green line of the [100 Yen Kururi Bus](e8101.html) from Tottori Station and get off at bus stop number 12 from where it is a few steps to the castle ruins. The bus ride takes about 10 minutes and costs 100 yen. Buses depart every 20 minutes. Alternatively, the ruins are a 30 minute walk from the station.

[How to get to and around Tottori](e8101.html)