---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e8105.html
title: Tottori Museum Guide
description: Guide to museums in Tottori City.
keywords: tottori, city, museum, museums, guide
content_type: other_region
word_count: 1815
char_count: 11958
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:32:34
---

Tottori Prefectural Museum

The following is a list of some of the interesting museums around [Tottori](e8100.html):

* 

  Sand Museum

  See the [sand dune page](e8102.html) for admission details

  The [Sand Museum](e8102.html) exhibits large sand sculptures built by artists from around the world. The sculptures, some several meters high, are based around a central theme that changes with each exhibition. It is located next to the [sand dunes](e8102.html) outside the city center.
* 

  Tottori Prefectural Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (until 19:00 during some exhibitions)  
  Closed: Mondays (or Tue if Mon is a [holiday](e2062.html)), Dec 29 to Jan 3  
  Admission: 180 yen (permanent exhibition)

  Located next to the city's [castle ruins](e8103.html), the Tottori Prefectural Museum exhibits a permanent collection of art, folk history and natural history related to Tottori Prefecture. In addition, it hosts several special exhibitions each year.
* 

  Yamabikokan

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (entry until 16:30)  
  Closed: Mondays (or Tue if Mon is a [holiday](e2062.html)), Dec 29 to Jan 3  
  Admission: 300 yen (permanent exhibition), 500 yen (special exhibitions)

  The Yamabikokan is a science and history museum which uses hands-on experiences and active participation in experiments and technology to encourage its visitors to learn about Tottori. Furthermore, special exhibitions are held throughout the year.
* 

  Tottori Folk Craft Museum

  Hours: 10:00 to 17:00  
  Closed: Wednesdays (or Thu if Wed is a [holiday](e2062.html)), [New Year](e2276.html) holidays  
  Admission: 500 yen

  The Folk Art Museum presents a small collection of antique furniture and housewares, including tansu chests, chairs and other furnishings that represent traditional Tottori design and craftsmanship. The antique warehouse building is an attraction in itself and adds to the charm of the museum.

### Sand Museum

The sand museum is located next to the Tottori Sand Dunes. Please see the [sand dune](e8102.html) page for access details.

### Tottori Prefectural Museum

The prefectural museum is located close to the Tottori Castle Ruins. Please see the [castle ruin](e8103.html) page for access details.

### Yamabikokan

Take the red line of the [100 Yen Kururi Bus](e8101.html) from Tottori Station and get off at bus stop number 17 near the museum. The bus ride takes about 20 minutes and costs 100 yen. Buses depart every 20 minutes. Alternatively, the museum is a 30 minute walk from the station.

### Folk Craft Museum

The Tottori Folk Craft Museum is only a short walk from Tottori Station.

[How to get to and around Tottori](e8101.html)