---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e8302.html
title: Arita Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for Arita, a town in Kyushu famous for its pottery (Arita-yaki).
keywords: arita, travel, guide, sightseeing, visitor, pottery, ceramics, porcelain, yaki
content_type: other_region
word_count: 918
char_count: 6372
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 14:07:28
---

Arita (有田) is a small town in western [Saga Prefecture](/list/e1241.html) on [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html) that is famous throughout Japan for its [pottery](e2329.html), known as **Arita-yaki**. Most of the town's attractions are related to pottery, including kilns, museums, archaeological sites, shops and even the [local shrine](#tozan).

The history of Arita-yaki dates back about 400 years, when [Toyotomi Hideyoshi](e2123.html) attempted to invade Korea and brought back several highly skilled Korean craftsmen to Japan. In 1616, one of these craftsmen discovered kaolin - the mineral required to make porcelain - at the site which later became the [Izumiyama Quarry](#izumiyama). Consequently, Arita became the first place in Japan to produce porcelain.

Porcelain komainu guardian dog on display at Tozan Shrine

Several large scale kilns were subsequently built around Arita, resulting in great prosperity for the town. Arita's [pottery](e2329.html) was not only made for the domestic market, but also became popular in China and Europe. Arita-yaki pottery that traveled out of the nearby [Imari Port](e8304.html) would also be labeled as **Imari-yaki**.

Arita's attractions and shops are found in the old town around Kami-Arita Station, except for the [Kyushu Ceramic Museum](#prefectural) - the best museum on local Arita pottery - which is near Arita Station. Additionally, there is a porcelain-related theme park located on the outskirts of town.

### Around Kami-Arita Station

* 

  Tozan Shrine•

  Hours: Always open  
  Admission: Free

  The shrine was built in the mid 1600s and is dedicated to one of the most influential of the Korean potters who introduced porcelain making to Arita. The shrine is unique for having both a [torii gate](e2059.html) and statues of [komainu guardian dogs](e2059.html) made out of porcelain.
* 

  Tonbai Wall Alleys

  While the merchants of Arita sold [pottery](e2329.html) along the town's main street, the potters themselves lived in the back alleys and built high walls to conceal their techniques from competitors. These walls, which can still be seen today, were made out of old bricks from the kilns and fragments of discarded pottery and porcelain.
* 

  Ceramic Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 16:30  
  Admission: 120 yen  
  Closed: Mondays (except during [Golden Week](e2282.html)), December 29 to January 3

  This small museum displays a collection of Arita pottery in a two story stone building that was formerly a storehouse. One of the most interesting pieces is a large dish with illustrations of the local methods of porcelain production.
* 

  Izumiyama Quarry

  Hours: Always open  
  Admission: Free

  It was due to the discovery of kaolin stone at this site that Arita developed into a prosperous center of porcelain production. In the meantime, there is no longer any active mining at the quarry, and visitors can view the exposed rocks from a nearby observation area.
* 

  Folk and History Museum

  Hours: 9:00 to 16:30  
  Admission: 120 yen  
  Closed: December 29 to January 3

  Located just beside Izumiyama Quarry, this small museum covers the history of Arita with displays about porcelain production and daily life, including documents of the porcelain business and local currencies.
* 

  Tengudani Kiln Site

  The Tengudani Kiln was one of the first kilns in Arita built along a slope. The 50 meter long and five meter wide kiln no longer stands, but its location is marked. A [reproduction](#kilnreproduction) of the kiln can be seen in the [Arita Porcelain Park](#park).

### Around Arita Station

* 

  The Kyushu Ceramic Museum•

  Hours: 9:00 to 17:00  
  Admission: Free (except for special exhibitions)  
  Closed: Mondays (except on [national holidays](e2062.html)), December 29 to January 3

  This is the best museum in Arita, providing a wealth of displays and information not only about Arita, but all of [Kyushu](/list/e1108.html).

### Arita Porcelain Park

Located outside of the town center, the Arita Porcelain Park is a porcelain-related "theme park" with a large reconstruction of the Zwinger Palace of Dresden. Although the park has seen better days, some of its attractions are well done. Admission to the grounds is free.

* 

  Zwinger Palace

  The main attraction of the Arita Porcelain Park is a reconstruction of the Zwinger Palace of Dresden, Germany, which is well known for its own local porcelain, Meissen Porcelain. There is a porcelain museum in the palace's interior; however, it is now closed to the public.
* 

  Tengudani Kiln Reproduction

  In one of the park's corners stands a reconstruction of the [Tengudani Kiln](#tengudani), whose original location can be visited in Arita's old town. At a nearby workshop, visitors can participate in hands-on [pottery lessons](e2329.html) and create their own cups or bowls for between 800 and 4000 yen.

**Ratings:**
  
 best of the best
  
 best of Japan
  
 outstanding

### How to get to Arita

Read [our separate page](e8301.html) on [how to get to Arita](e8301.html).

### How to get around Arita

Most of Arita's attractions are within a kilometer of **Kami-Arita Station** (served by [local trains](e2016.html) only) and can be accessed on foot. However, one of the city's most interesting attractions, the [Kyushu Ceramic Museum](#prefectural), is closer to **Arita Station** (served by local and [limited express](e2016.html) trains), a three minute, 200 yen ride to the west by hourly trains. Walking between the two stations takes about 40 minutes.

The Arita Porcelain Park is located on the outskirts of town, about four kilometers southeast of Arita Station, without access by public transportation. A [taxi](e2021.html) ride from Arita Station to the park takes about ten minutes and costs around 1500 yen.

[How to get to and around Arita and Imari](e8301.html)