---
url: https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e8200.html
title: Ogasawara Islands Travel Guide
description: Travel guide for the Ogasawara Islands, the southernmost inhabited Tokyo islands.
keywords: ogasawara, island, bonin, islands, guide, travel, tourism, sightseeing, tourist, visitor
content_type: other_region
word_count: 452
char_count: 3464
crawled_at: 2025-12-22 11:40:19
---

The Ogasawara Islands (小笠原諸島, Ogasawara Shotō), also known in English as the Bonin Islands, are a chain of volcanic islands in the Pacific Ocean, about 1000 kilometers south and administratively part of [Tokyo](e2164.html). The sole way to reach the islands is by a weekly 24 hour ferry ride from Tokyo. Only the two largest islands, [Chichijima](e8202.html) ("Father Island") and [Hahajima](e8203.html) ("Mother Island") are inhabited.

Hahajima Island viewed from Mount Kofuji

Located on a similar geographical latitude as [Okinawa](/list/e1247.html), the Ogasawara Islands offer a subtropical climate with warm temperatures year around. The islands attract visitors with their remoteness, relaxed hospitality, beautiful [beaches](e2461.html), coral reefs and jungle-covered hills. They also offer various outdoor activities such as whale watching, swimming with dolphins, [hiking](e2427.html), sea kayaking, [snorkeling](e2424_snorkeling.html) and [diving](e2424_diving.html).

Because the Ogasawara Islands were never connected to the Japanese mainland or any continent, they feature many unique plants and animals that are only found here, including various birds, insects and crabs. In order to maintain the unique environment, visitors must pay attention not to import any seeds or alien species to the islands and refrain from collecting or otherwise harming the local plants and wildlife. For this reason camping and off-trail hiking are strictly prohibited throughout the islands.

Minamijima Island

The Ogasawara Islands were discovered in 1593 by Ogasawara Sadayori, who claimed them for the [Tokugawa Shogunate](e2128.html). But they remained largely uninhabited until 1830 when a small group of Westerners and Pacific Islanders established a colony on [Chichijima](e8202.html). The islands officially became Japanese territory in 1875 and later served as military bases during [WW2](e2129.html). After the war, they were occupied by the United States until their return to Japan in 1968.

The remoteness of the islands comes with a few minor inconveniences. Acceptance of credit cards is limited, while cash withdrawal is possible through the postal [ATMs](e2208.html) found at the JA Bank branches on both islands (note limited business hours). [Cell phone](e2223.html) coverage is limited mostly to the populated areas of Chichijima and Hahajima.

Futami Port on Chichijima Island

* [](/e/e8202.html)

  1

  Beach

  [Chichijima Island••](/e/e8202.html)

  The larger of the two inhabited Ogasawara Islands.

  4.8

  

  25
* [](/e/e8203.html)

  2

  Beach

  [Hahajima Island••](/e/e8203.html)

  The smaller of the two inhabited Ogasawara Islands.

  12